Question: Which branch of biology studies animal behavior?
Context: The branch of biology that studies animal behavior is called ethology. Ethologists usually study how animals behave in their natural environment. They try to determine the cause of behaviors, how behaviors develop, and how and why behaviors evolve.
Answer: ethology

Question: What is the name for a biologist who studies fungi?
Context: Mycologist Mycologists are biologists who study fungi. Mycology is a branch of microbiology, and many mycologists start their careers with a degree in microbiology. To become a mycologist, a bachelor's degree in a biological science (preferably majoring in microbiology) and a master's degree in mycology are minimally necessary. Mycologists can specialize in taxonomy and fungal genomics, molecular and cellular biology, plant pathology, biotechnology, or biochemistry. Some medical microbiologists concentrate on the study of infectious diseases caused by fungi (mycoses). Mycologists collaborate with zoologists and plant pathologists to identify and control difficult fungal infections, such as the devastating chestnut blight, the mysterious decline in frog populations in many areas of the world, or the deadly epidemic called white nose syndrome, which is decimating bats in the Eastern United States. Government agencies hire mycologists as research scientists and technicians to monitor the health of crops, national parks, and national forests. Mycologists are also employed in the private sector by companies that develop chemical and biological control products or new agricultural products, and by companies that provide disease control services. Because of the key role played by fungi in the fermentation of alcohol and the preparation of many important foods, scientists with a good understanding of fungal physiology routinely work in the food technology industry. Oenology, the science of wine making, relies not only on the knowledge of grape varietals and soil composition, but also on a solid understanding of the characteristics of the wild yeasts that thrive in different wine-making regions. It is possible to purchase yeast strains isolated from specific grape-growing regions. The great French chemist and microbiologist, Louis Pasteur, made many of his essential discoveries working on the humble brewer’s yeast, thus discovering the process of fermentation.
Answer: mycologists

Question: Because microorganisms can go through several generations in a matter of hours, their gene expression profiles adapt to the new laboratory environment very quickly. in addition, the vast majority of bacterial species resist being cultured in this?
Context: Microbial Genomics: Metagenomics Traditionally, microbiology has been taught with the view that microorganisms are best studied under pure culture conditions, which involves isolating a single type of cell and culturing it in the laboratory. Because microorganisms can go through several generations in a matter of hours, their gene expression profiles adapt to the new laboratory environment very quickly. In addition, the vast majority of bacterial species resist being cultured in isolation. Most microorganisms do not live as isolated entities, but in microbial communities known as biofilms. For all of these reasons, pure culture is not always the best way to study microorganisms. Metagenomics is the study of the collective genomes of multiple species.
Answer: isolation

Question: What is paleobotany?
Context: Paleobotanist How organisms acquired traits that allow them to colonize new environments—and how the contemporary ecosystem is shaped—are fundamental questions of evolution. Paleobotany (the study of extinct plants) addresses these questions through the analysis of fossilized specimens retrieved from field studies, reconstituting the morphology of organisms that disappeared long ago. Paleobotanists trace the evolution of plants by following the modifications in plant morphology: shedding light on the connection between existing plants by identifying common ancestors that display the same traits. This field seeks to find transitional species that bridge gaps in the path to the development of modern organisms. Fossils are formed when organisms are trapped in sediments or environments where their shapes are preserved. Paleobotanists collect fossil specimens in the field and place them in the context of the geological sediments and other fossilized organisms surrounding them. The activity requires great care to preserve the integrity of the delicate fossils and the layers of rock in which they are found. One of the most exciting recent developments in paleobotany is the use of analytical chemistry and molecular biology to study fossils. Preservation of molecular structures requires an environment free of oxygen, since oxidation and degradation of material through the activity of microorganisms depend on its presence. One example of the use of analytical chemistry and molecular biology is the identification of oleanane, a compound that deters pests. Up to this point, oleanane appeared to be unique to flowering plants; however, it has now been recovered from sediments dating from the Permian, much earlier than the current dates given for the appearance of the first flowering plants. Paleobotanists can also study fossil DNA, which can yield a large amount of information, by analyzing and comparing the DNA sequences of extinct plants with those of living and related organisms. Through this analysis, evolutionary relationships can be built for plant lineages. Some paleobotanists are skeptical of the conclusions drawn from the analysis of molecular fossils. For example, the chemical materials of interest degrade rapidly when exposed to air during their initial isolation, as well as in further manipulations. There is always a high risk of contaminating the specimens with extraneous material, mostly from microorganisms. Nevertheless, as technology is refined, the analysis of DNA from fossilized plants will provide invaluable information on the evolution of plants and their adaptation to an ever-changing environment.
Answer: study of extinct plants

Question: What kind of pipettes are suitable for measuring very small amounts of liquids?
Context: Pipettes are small, but important tools in many biology labs. Micropipettes, such as the ones shown here, are calibrated to measure very small amounts of liquids. For example, 100 microliters (100 µL) is about half the volume of your little finger tip; or even 1 µL, which is much smaller than a drop of water.
Answer: micropipettes

Question: Where in the cell does transcription occur?
Context: Transcription is the DNA → RNA part of the central dogma of molecular biology. It occurs in the nucleus. During transcription, a copy of mRNA is made that is complementary to a strand of DNA. In eukaryotes, mRNA may be modified before it leaves the nucleus.
Answer: nucleus

Question: The scientific method is a method of research with defined steps that include experiments and careful what?
Context: that have taken place during this time. There are however, areas of knowledge and human experience that the methods of science cannot be applied to. These include such things as answering purely moral questions, aesthetic questions, or what can be generally categorized as spiritual questions. Science has cannot investigate these areas because they are outside the realm of material phenomena, the phenomena of matter and energy, and cannot be observed and measured. The scientific method is a method of research with defined steps that include experiments and careful observation. The steps of the scientific method will be examined in detail later, but one of the most important aspects of this method is the testing of hypotheses. A hypothesis is a suggested explanation for an event, which can be tested. Hypotheses, or tentative explanations, are generally produced within the context of a scientific theory. A scientific theory is a generally accepted, thoroughly tested and confirmed explanation for a set of observations or phenomena. Scientific theory is the foundation of scientific knowledge. In addition, in many scientific disciplines (less so in biology) there are scientific laws, often expressed in mathematical formulas, which describe how elements of nature will behave under certain specific conditions. There is not an evolution of hypotheses through theories to laws as if they represented some increase in certainty about the world. Hypotheses are the day-to-day material that scientists work with and they are developed within the context of theories. Laws are concise descriptions of parts of the world that are amenable to formulaic or mathematical description. Natural Sciences What would you expect to see in a museum of natural sciences? Frogs? Plants? Dinosaur skeletons? Exhibits about how the brain functions? A planetarium? Gems and minerals? Or maybe all of the above? Science includes such diverse fields as astronomy, biology, computer sciences, geology, logic, physics, chemistry, and mathematics (Figure 1.16). However, those fields of science related to the physical world and its phenomena and processes are considered natural sciences. Thus, a museum of natural sciences might contain any of the items listed above.
Answer: observation

Question: What is the field of biology that focuses on the study of inheritance in humans?
Context: Human genetics is the field of biology that focuses on the study of inheritance in humans.
Answer: human genetics

Question: The goal of proteomics is to identify or compare what substances expressed from a given genome under specific conditions, study the interactions between them, and use the information to predict cell behavior or develop drug targets?
Context: Basic Techniques in Protein Analysis The ultimate goal of proteomics is to identify or compare the proteins expressed from a given genome under specific conditions, study the interactions between the proteins, and use the information to predict cell behavior or develop drug targets. Just as the genome is analyzed using the basic technique of DNA sequencing, proteomics requires techniques for protein analysis. The basic technique for protein analysis, analogous to DNA sequencing, is mass spectrometry. Mass spectrometry is used to identify and determine the characteristics of a molecule. Advances in spectrometry have allowed researchers to analyze very small samples of protein. X-ray crystallography, for example, enables scientists to determine the three-dimensional structure of a protein crystal at atomic resolution. Another protein imaging technique, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), uses the magnetic properties of atoms to determine the three-dimensional structure of proteins in aqueous solution. Protein microarrays have also been used to study interactions between proteins. Large-scale adaptations of the basic two-hybrid screen (Figure 17.17) have provided the basis for protein microarrays. Computer software is used to analyze the vast amount of data generated for proteomic analysis. Genomic- and proteomic-scale analyses are part of systems biology. Systems biology is the study of whole biological systems (genomes and proteomes) based on interactions within the system. The European Bioinformatics Institute and the Human Proteome Organization (HUPO) are developing and establishing effective tools to sort through the enormous pile of systems biology data. Because proteins are the direct products of genes and reflect activity at the genomic level, it is natural to use proteomes to compare the protein profiles of different cells to identify proteins and genes involved in disease processes. Most pharmaceutical drug trials target proteins. Information obtained from proteomics is being used to identify novel drugs and understand their mechanisms of action.
Answer: proteins

Question: What kind of reproduction is vegetative reproduction?
Context: Vegetative reproduction is a type of asexual reproduction found in plants. This type of reproduction occurs when new individuals are formed without the production of seeds or spores. The formation of new plants out of rhizomes or stolons is an example of vegetative reproductive, such as in the strawberry plant. Other plants use this type of reproduction to reproduce through bulbs or tubers, or shoots and suckers that form along lateral roots. See the Plant Biology concepts for additional information.
Answer: asexual

Question: What field of study is called the language of science?
Context: The field of science has gotten so big that it is common to separate it into more specific fields. First, there is mathematics, the language of science. All scientific fields use mathematics to express themselves—some more than others. Physics and astronomy are scientific fields concerned with the fundamental interactions between matter and energy. Chemistry, as defined previously, is the study of the interactions of matter with other matter and with energy. Biology is the study of living organisms, while geology is the study of the earth. Other sciences can be named as well. Understand that these fields are not always completely separate; the boundaries between scientific fields are not always readily apparent. Therefore, a scientist may be labeled a biochemist if he or she studies the chemistry of biological organisms. Finally, understand that science can be either qualitative or quantitative. Qualitative implies a description of the quality of an object. For example, physical properties are generally qualitative descriptions: sulfur is yellow, your math book is heavy, or that statue is pretty. A quantitative description represents the specific amount of something; it means knowing how much of something is present, usually by counting or measuring it. As such, some quantitative descriptions would include 25 students in a class, 650 pages in a book, or a velocity of 66 miles per hour. Quantitative expressions are very important in science; they are also very important in chemistry.
Answer: mathematics

Question: What can be thought of as the fundamental unit of life?
Context: It could easily be said that a cell is the fundamental unit of life, the smallest unit capable of life or the structural and functional unit necessary for life. But whatever it is, a cell is necessary for life. The Cell Biology chapter will discuss some of the fundamental properties of the cell, with lessons that include the cell structure, transport in and out of the cell, energy metabolism, and cell division and reproduction.
Answer: cell

Question: Mass spectrometry today is used extensively in chemistry and biology laboratories to identify chemical and biological substances according to their ratios of what?
Context: Mass spectrometry today is used extensively in chemistry and biology laboratories to identify chemical and biological substances according to their mass-to-charge ratios. In medicine, mass spectrometers are used to measure the concentration of isotopes used as tracers. Usually, biological molecules such as proteins are very large, so they are broken down into smaller fragments before analyzing. Recently, large virus particles have been analyzed as a whole on mass spectrometers. Sometimes a gas chromatograph or high-performance liquid chromatograph provides an initial separation of the large molecules, which are then input into the mass spectrometer.
Answer: mass-to-charge

Question: What branch of science offers an overview of the physiology of humans?
Context: Human Biology provides an overview of the physiology of humans, from the skin inward. In addition to the skin, the skeletal, muscular, nervous, circulatory, respiratory, digestive, excretory, immune, and reproductive systems are described.
Answer: human biology

Question: What are used as model organisms in molecular biology and genetics?
Context: Cellular slime molds are used as model organisms in molecular biology and genetics. They may be the key to how multicellular organisms evolved. Can you explain why?.
Answer: cellular slime molds

Question: What are regular changes in biology or behavior that occur in a 24 hour cycle?
Context: Circadian rhythms are regular changes in biology or behavior that occur in a 24-hour cycle. In humans, for example, blood pressure and body temperature change in a regular way throughout each 24-hour day.
Answer: circadian rhythm

Question: What branch of biology uses fossils to study life’s history?
Context: Paleontology, another branch of biology, uses fossils to study life’s history (Figure 1.20). Zoology and botany are the study of animals and plants, respectively. Biologists can also specialize as biotechnologists, ecologists, or physiologists, to name just a few areas. This is just a small sample of the many fields that biologists can pursue. Biology is the culmination of the achievements of the natural sciences from their inception to today. Excitingly, it is the cradle of emerging sciences, such as the biology of brain activity, genetic engineering of custom organisms, and the biology of evolution that uses the laboratory tools of molecular biology to retrace the earliest stages of life on earth. A scan of news headlines—whether reporting on immunizations, a newly discovered species, sports doping, or a genetically-modified food—demonstrates the way biology is active in and important to our everyday world.
Answer: paleontology

Question: How many underlying principles does the science of biology have?
Context: Four underlying principles form the basis of biology. They are cell theory, gene theory, homeostasis, and evolution.
Answer: four

Question: Which branch of biology uses fossils to study life's history?
Context: Paleontology, another branch of biology, uses fossils to study life’s history (Figure 1.12). Zoology and botany are the study of animals and plants, respectively. Biologists can also specialize as biotechnologists, ecologists, or physiologists, to name just a few areas. Biotechnologists apply the knowledge of biology to create useful products. Ecologists study the interactions of organisms in their environments. Physiologists study the workings of cells, tissues and organs. This is just a small sample of the many fields that biologists can pursue. From our own bodies to the world we live in, discoveries in biology can affect us in very direct and important ways. We depend on these discoveries for our health, our food sources, and the benefits provided by our ecosystem. Because of this, knowledge of biology can benefit us in making decisions in our day-to-day lives. The development of technology in the twentieth century that continues today, particularly the technology to describe and manipulate the genetic material, DNA, has transformed biology. This transformation will allow biologists to continue to understand the history of life in greater detail, how the human body works, our human origins, and how humans can survive as a species on this planet despite the stresses caused by our increasing numbers. Biologists continue to decipher huge mysteries about life suggesting that we have only begun to understand life on the planet, its history, and our relationship to it. For this and other reasons, the knowledge of biology gained through this textbook and other printed and electronic media should be a benefit in whichever field you enter.
Answer: paleontology

Question: In biology, what is required for ecosystems to survive?
Context: In biology, energy is required for ecosystems to survive, as all living organisms need energy. Within an organism, energy is needed for growth and development of a biological cell or an organelle within that cell. Energy is also needed for all biochemical reactions within that cell. Therefore, energy is stored within cells in the chemical bonds of substances such as carbohydrates (including sugars), lipids, and proteins. This energy is released during aerobic respiration.
Answer: energy

Question: What process of gradual change is the source of diversity of life on earth?
Context: The Diversity of Life The fact that biology, as a science, has such a broad scope has to do with the tremendous diversity of life on earth. The source of this diversity is evolution, the process of gradual change during which new species arise from older species. Evolutionary biologists study the evolution of living things in everything from the microscopic world to ecosystems. The evolution of various life forms on Earth can be summarized in a phylogenetic tree (Figure 1.17). A phylogenetic tree is a diagram showing the evolutionary relationships among biological species based on similarities and differences in genetic or physical traits or both. A phylogenetic tree is composed of nodes and branches. The internal nodes represent ancestors and are points in evolution when, based on scientific evidence, an ancestor is thought to have diverged to form two new species. The length of each branch is proportional to the time elapsed since the split.
Answer: evolution

Question: Hemoglobin is responsible for transporting what within our blood?
Context: To predict the relative stabilities of metal complexes with different ligands. One of the most important properties of metallic elements is their ability to act as Lewis acids that form complexes with a variety of Lewis bases. A metal complex consists of a central metal atom or ion that is bonded to one or more ligands (from the Latinligare, meaning “to bind”), which are ions or molecules that contain one or more pairs of electrons that can be shared with the metal. Metal complexes can be neutral, such as Co(NH3)3Cl3; positively charged, such as [Nd(H2O)9]3+; or negatively charged, such as [UF8]4−. Electrically charged metal complexes are sometimes called complex ions. A coordination compound contains one or more metal complexes. Coordination compounds are important for at least three reasons. First, most of the elements in the periodic table are metals, and almost all metals form complexes, so metal complexes are a feature of the chemistry of more than half the elements. Second, many industrial catalysts are metal complexes, and such catalysts are steadily becoming more important as a way to control reactivity. For example, a mixture of a titanium complex and an organometallic compound of aluminum is the catalyst used to produce most of the polyethylene and polypropylene “plastic” items we use every day. Finally, transition-metal complexes are essential in biochemistry. Examples include hemoglobin, an iron complex that transports oxygen in our blood; cytochromes, iron complexes that transfer electrons in our cells; and complexes of Fe, Zn, Cu, and Mo that are crucial components of certain enzymes, the catalysts for all biological reactions. Metal complexes are so important in biology that we consider the topic separately in Section 23.6 "Transition Metals in Biology".
Answer: oxygen

Question: What do you call a group of organisms of the same species that live in the same area?
Context: Communities are made up of populations of different species. In biology, a population is a group of organisms of the same species that live in the same area. The population is the unit of natural selection and evolution. How large a population is and how fast it is growing are often used as measures of its health.
Answer: population

Question: What branch of biology focuses on heredity?
Context: When zinc reacts with hydrochloric acid, the reaction bubbles vigorously as hydrogen gas is produced. The production of a gas is also an indication that a chemical reaction is occurring.
Answer: genetics

Question: Which waterfall series is the largest on the planet?
Context: Another name for this compound is…water. Water can create some absolutely beautiful sights. Iguassu Falls is the largest series of waterfalls on the planet, located in Brazil, Argentina, and Paraguay. And water is necessary for life. Water, like carbon, has a special role in biology because of its importance to organisms. Water is essential to all known forms of life. Water, H 2 O, such a simple molecule, yet it is this simplicity that gives water its unique properties and explains why water is so vital for life.
Answer: iguassu falls

Question: Whether focused on ancient life, the life of bacteria, or how humans could live on the moon, four unifying principles form the basis of what branch of science?
Context: Four unifying principles form the basis of biology. Whether biologists are interested in ancient life, the life of bacteria, or how humans could live on the moon, they base their overall understanding of biology on these four principles:.
Answer: biology

Question: The theory of evolution by what (and other processes) explains both the diversity of organisms and how populations of organisms change over time?
Context: Biology has only a few over arching theories. One of these, the Cell Theory of Life, explains the historic continuity of organisms, while the Theory of Evolution by Natural Selection (and other processes), explains both the diversity of organisms and how populations of organisms change over time. Finally, the Physicochemical Theory of Life explains how it is that organisms can display their remarkable properties without violating the laws that govern all physical and chemical systems.40 What is life, exactly? Clearly, if we are going to talk about biology, and organisms and cells and such, we have to define exactly what we mean by life. This raises a problem peculiar to biology as a science. We cannot define life generically because we know of only one type of life. We do not know whether this type of life is the only type of life possible or whether radically different forms of life exist elsewhere in the universe or even on Earth, in as yet to be recognized forms. While you might think that we know of many different types of life, from mushrooms to whales, from humans to the bacterial communities growing on the surfaces of our teeth (that is what dental plaque is, after all), we will discover that the closer we look the more these different “types of life” are in fact all versions of a common underlying motif, they represent versions of a single type of life. Based on their common chemistry, molecular composition, cellular structure, and the way that they encode, read, and use hereditary information in the form of molecules of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), all topics we will consider in depth later on, there is no reasonable doubt that all organisms are related, they are descended from a common ancestor. We cannot currently answer the question of whether the origin of life is a simple, likely, and predictable event given the conditions that existed on the Earth when life first arose, or whether it is an extremely rare and unlikely event. In the absence of empirical data, one can question whether scientists are acting scientifically or more as lobbyists for their own pet projects when they talk about doing astrobiology or speculating on when and where we will discover alien life forms. That said, asking seemingly silly questions, provided that empirically-based answers can be generated, has often been the critical driver of scientific progress. Consider, for example, current searches for life on Earth, almost all of which are based on what we already know about life. Specifically, most of the methods used rely on the fact that all known organisms use DNA to encode their genetic information; these methods would not be expected to recognize dramatically different types of life; they certainly would not detect organisms that used a non-DNA method to encode genetic information. If we could generate living systems de novo in the laboratory we would have a better understanding of what functions are necessary for life and how to look for possible “non-standard” organisms using better methods. It might even lead to the discovery of alternative forms of life right here on Earth, assuming they exist.41 That said, until someone manages to create or identify such non-standard forms of life, it seems quite reasonable to concentrate on the characteristics of life as we know them.
Answer: natural selection

Question: What science is the study of the occurrence, distribution, and determinants of health and disease in a population?
Context: Epidemiologist Epidemiology is the study of the occurrence, distribution, and determinants of health and disease in a population. It is, therefore, related to public health. An epidemiologist studies the frequency and distribution of diseases within human populations and environments. Epidemiologists collect data about a particular disease and track its spread to identify the original mode of transmission. They sometimes work in close collaboration with historians to try to understand the way a disease evolved geographically and over time, tracking the natural history of pathogens. They gather information from clinical records, patient interviews, and any other available means. That information is used to develop strategies and design public health policies to reduce the incidence of a disease or to prevent its spread. Epidemiologists also conduct rapid investigations in case of an outbreak to recommend immediate measures to control it. Epidemiologists typically have a graduate-level education. An epidemiologist often has a bachelor’s degree in some field and a master’s degree in public health (MPH). Many epidemiologists are also physicians (and have an MD) or they have a PhD in an associated field, such as biology or epidemiology.
Answer: epidemiology

Question: What is the term for the study of how living things interact with each other and with their environment?
Context: Ecology is the study of how living things interact with each other and with their environment. It is a major branch of biology, but has areas of overlap with geography, geology, climatology, and other sciences. This lesson introduces fundamental concepts in ecology, beginning with organisms and the environment.
Answer: ecology

Question: Carbon and what are the second and third most abundant elements in your body?
Context: 2.4 | Inorganic Compounds Essential to Human Functioning By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Compare and contrast inorganic and organic compounds • Identify the properties of water that make it essential to life • Explain the role of salts in body functioning • Distinguish between acids and bases, and explain their role in pH • Discuss the role of buffers in helping the body maintain pH homeostasis The concepts you have learned so far in this chapter govern all forms of matter, and would work as a foundation for geology as well as biology. This section of the chapter narrows the focus to the chemistry of human life; that is, the compounds important for the body’s structure and function. In general, these compounds are either inorganic or organic. • An inorganic compound is a substance that does not contain both carbon and hydrogen. A great many inorganic compounds do contain hydrogen atoms, such as water (H2O) and the hydrochloric acid (HCl) produced by your stomach. In contrast, only a handful of inorganic compounds contain carbon atoms. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is one of the few examples. • An organic compound, then, is a substance that contains both carbon and hydrogen. Organic compounds are synthesized via covalent bonds within living organisms, including the human body. Recall that carbon and hydrogen are the second and third most abundant elements in your body. You will soon discover how these two elements combine in the foods you eat, in the compounds that make up your body structure, and in the chemicals that fuel your functioning. The following section examines the three groups of inorganic compounds essential to life: water, salts, acids, and bases. Organic compounds are covered later in the chapter.
Answer: hydrogen

Question: Many disciplines within the study of biology contribute to understanding how past and present life evolved over time; these disciplines together contribute to building, updating, and maintaining this?
Context: The diagrams above can serve as a pathway to understanding evolutionary history. The pathway can be traced from the origin of life to any individual species by navigating through the evolutionary branches between the two points. Also, by starting with a single species and tracing back towards the "trunk" of the tree, one can discover that species' ancestors, as well as where lineages share a common ancestry. In addition, the tree can be used to study entire groups of organisms. Another point to mention on phylogenetic tree structure is that rotation at branch points does not change the information. For example, if a branch point was rotated and the taxon order changed, this would not alter the information because the evolution of each taxon from the branch point was independent of the other. Many disciplines within the study of biology contribute to understanding how past and present life evolved over time; these disciplines together contribute to building, updating, and maintaining the “tree of life. ” Information is used to organize and classify organisms based on evolutionary relationships in a scientific field called systematics. Data may be collected from fossils, from studying the structure of body parts or molecules used by an organism, and by DNA analysis. By combining data from many sources, scientists can put together the phylogeny of an organism; since phylogenetic trees are hypotheses, they will continue to change as new types of life are discovered and new information is learned.
Answer: tree of life

Question: What is the name of the science that studies matter and the changes material substances undergo?
Context: Summary Chemistry is the study of matter and the changes material substances undergo. It is essential for understanding much of the natural world and central to many other scientific disciplines, including astronomy, geology, paleontology, biology, and medicine.
Answer: chemistry

Question: The scientific practice of classifying organisms is also known as what?
Context: 22 Classification of Living Things 22.0.1 Classification of Living Things & Naming With so many flora and fauna on planet Earth, there must be a method to classify each organism to distinguish it from others so it can be correctly identified. Classification does not only apply to biology. For example, supermarkets and grocery stores organise their products by classifying them. Beverages may occupy one aisle, while cleaning supplies may occupy another. In science, the practice of classifying organisms is called taxonomy (Taxis means arrangement and nomos means law). The modern taxonomic system was developed by the Swedish botanist Carolus (Carl) Linneaeus (1707-1788). He used simple physical characteristics of organisms to identify and differentiate between different species. Linneaeus developed a hierarchy of groups for taxonomy. To distinguish different levels of similarity, each classifying group, called taxon (pl. taxa) is subdivided into other groups. To remember the order, it is helpful to use a mnemonic device. The taxa in hierarchical order: • • • • • • • •.
Answer: taxonomy

Question: Genetics is the branch of biology that focuses on heredity in what?
Context: Genetics is the branch of biology that focuses on heredity in organisms.
Answer: organisms

Question: In biology, a relationship that benefits both entities is known as what?
Context: Some bacteria depend on other organisms for survival. For example, some bacteria live in the roots of legumes, such as pea plants ( Figure below ). The bacteria turn nitrogen-containing molecules into nitrogen that the plant can use. Meanwhile, the root provides nutrients to the bacteria. In this relationship, both the bacteria and the plant benefit, so it is known as a mutualism .
Answer: mutualism

Question: What concept can be applied to biology, because the structure of an organism, or part of an organism, depends on its function?
Context: An important concept in biology is that form follows function. In other words, the structure of an organism, or part of an organism, depends on its function. Apply this concept to plants, and explain why plants have different types of cells and tissues.
Answer: form follows function

Question: When the nucleus divides, the two chromatids that make up each chromosome separate from each other and move to opposite poles of the cell during this process?
Context: During mitosis , when the nucleus divides, the two chromatids that make up each chromosome separate from each other and move to opposite poles of the cell. This is shown in Figure below . You can watch an animation of the process at the following link: http://www. biology. arizona. edu/Cell_bio/tutorials/cell_cycle/MitosisFlash. html .
Answer: mitosis

Question: What is the process in which the genetic code in mrna is read to make a protein called?
Context: Translation is the second part of the central dogma of molecular biology: RNA → Protein . It is the process in which the genetic code in mRNA is read to make a protein. Figure below shows how this happens. After mRNA leaves the nucleus, it moves to a ribosome, which consists of rRNA and proteins. The ribosome reads the sequence of codons in mRNA. Molecules of tRNA bring amino acids to the ribosome in the correct sequence.
Answer: translation

Question: Misconceptions about what theory contribute to the controversy that still surrounds this fundamental principle of biology?
Context: Today, evolution is still questioned by some people. Often, people who disagree with the theory of evolution do not really understand it. For example, some people think that the theory of evolution explains how life on Earth first began. In fact, the theory explains only how life changed after it first appeared. Some people think the theory of evolution means that humans evolved from modern apes. In fact, the theory suggests humans and modern apes have a common ancestor that lived several million years ago. These and other misconceptions about evolution contribute to the controversy that still surrounds this fundamental principle of biology.
Answer: theory of evolution

Question: Ecology is a major branch of what higher-level "classification" of science?
Context: Ecology is the study of how living things interact with each other and with their environment. It is a major branch of biology, but has areas of overlap with geography, geology, climatology, and other sciences. The study of ecology begins with two fundamental concepts in ecology: the ecosystem and their organisms.
Answer: biology

Question: What branch of biology focuses on heredity?
Context: Genetics is the branch of biology that focuses on heredity. The basics of heredity are similar for all organisms that reproduce sexually: the offspring receive one set of genetic material from one parent and the other set from the other parent. But are there aspects of genetics that are specific for humans? Let’s find out.
Answer: genetics

Question: What is the method of evolution by which advantageous heritable traits become more common over generations?
Context: The theory of evolution by natural selection was proposed at about the same time by both Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace, shown in Figure below , and was set out in detail in Darwin's 1859 book On the Origin of Species . Natural selection is a process that causes heritable traits that are helpful for survival and reproduction to become more common, and harmful traits, or traits that are not helpful or advantageous for survival to become more rare in a population of organisms. This occurs because organisms with advantageous traits are more "fit" to survive in a particular environment and have "adapted" to the conditions of that environment. These individuals will have greater reproductive success than organisms less fit for survival in the environment. This will lead to an increase in the number of organisms with the advantageous trait(s) over time. Over many generations, adaptations occur through a combination of successive, small, random changes in traits, and natural selection of those variants best-suited for their environment. Natural selection is one of the cornerstones of modern biology.
Answer: natural selection

Question: What sciences are the study of living organisms?
Context: The life sciences are the study of living organisms. They deal with every aspect of living organisms, from the biology of cells , to the biology of individual organisms, to how these organisms interact with other organisms and their environment.
Answer: life sciences

Question: What important aspect of the scientific method is a suggested explanation for an event, which can be tested?
Context: The Process of Science Biology is a science, but what exactly is science? What does the study of biology share with other scientific disciplines? Science (from the Latin scientia, meaning “knowledge”) can be defined as knowledge that covers general truths or the operation of general laws, especially when acquired and tested by the scientific method. It becomes clear from this definition that the application of the scientific method plays a major role in science. The scientific method is a method of research with defined steps that include experiments and careful observation. The steps of the scientific method will be examined in detail later, but one of the most important aspects of this method is the testing of hypotheses by means of repeatable experiments. A hypothesis is a suggested explanation for an event, which can be tested. Although using the scientific method is inherent to science, it is inadequate in determining what science is. This is because it is relatively easy to apply the scientific method to disciplines such as physics and chemistry, but when it.
Answer: hypothesis

Question: The word science is derived from what latin word?
Context: The Nature of Science Biology is a science, but what exactly is science? What does the study of biology share with other scientific disciplines? Science (from the Latin scientia, meaning "knowledge") can be defined as knowledge about the natural world. Science is a very specific way of learning, or knowing, about the world. The history of the past 500 years demonstrates that science is a very powerful way of knowing about the world; it is largely responsible for the technological revolutions.
Answer: scentia

Question: Behaviors are responses to stimuli. they can either be instinctual/innate behaviors, which are not influenced by the environment, or learned behaviors, which are influenced by this?
Context: 45.7 Behavioral Biology: Proximate and Ultimate Causes of Behavior Behaviors are responses to stimuli. They can either be instinctual/innate behaviors, which are not influenced by the environment, or learned behaviors, which are influenced by environmental changes. Instinctual behaviors include mating systems and methods of communication. Learned behaviors include imprinting and habituation, conditioning, and, most powerfully, cognitive learning. Although the connection between behavior, genetics, and evolution is well established, the explanation of human behavior as entirely genetic is controversial.
Answer: environmental changes

Question: Focused on evolution, the studies of what man have reshaped and influenced all aspects of biology?
Context: Evolution focuses on past life forms and how they turned into present life forms. The history of life on Earth demonstrates how the first cells formed, turned into simple life forms, and then became more complex plants and animals. The studies of Charles Darwin have reshaped and influenced all aspects of biology. The myriad evidence of evolution demonstrates the importance of the theory of evolution by natural selection. Lastly, the current focus on evolution demonstrates that evolution is a continuous and ongoing process that continues today.
Answer: charles darwin

Question: What property of matter is defined as the ability to do work and is required by all living organisms in order to grow and reproduce?
Context: Energy is a property of matter that is defined as the ability to do work. The concept of energy is useful for explaining and predicting most natural phenomena, and it is the foundation for an understanding of biology. All living organisms need energy to grow and reproduce. However, energy can never be created nor destroyed. Energy can only be transformed. That is, energy is always conserved. This is called the law of conservation of energy . Therefore, organisms cannot create the energy they need. Instead, they must obtain energy from the environment. Organisms also cannot destroy or use up the energy they obtain. They can only change it from one form to another. Organisms will either use their energy (for metabolism) or release it to the environment as heat.
Answer: energy

Question: What is the name of the project concerning genetics that is one of the landmark scientific events of the last 50 years?
Context: Beginning with Mendel's pea plants, genetics has become one of the most important fields of biology. Genetics discusses genetics, from Mendel's pea plants to current ethical issues associated with this field. The completion of The Human Genome Project is one of the landmark scientific events of the last 50 years. Human genetics affects many, if not every, field of medicine. Technologies associated with genetics are involved in developing products to make our lives better, but have raised a number of ethical, legal and social issues.
Answer: human genome project

Question: Internal functions are coordinated and regulated so that the internal environment of a living thing is relatively constant, referred to as what?
Context: Biology - The Life Science • Internal functions are coordinated and regulated so that the internal environment of a living thing is relatively constant, referred to as homeostasis10 . Living things are organized in the microscopic level from atoms up to cells11 . Atoms are arranged into molecules, then into macromolecules12 , which make up organelles13 , which work together to form cells. Beyond this, cells are organized in higher levels to form entire multicellular organisms. Cells together form tissues14 , which make up organs, which are part of organ systems, which work together to form an entire organism. Of course, beyond this, organisms form populations which make up parts of an ecosystem. All of the Earth's ecosystems together form the diverse environment that is the earth. Example:sub atoms, atoms, molecules, cells, tissues, organs, organ systems, organisms, population, community, eco systems.
Answer: homeostasis

Question: Biotechnology uses what to solve problems?
Context: Biotechnology is technology based on biological applications. These applications are increasingly used in medicine, agriculture and food science. Biotechnology combines many features of biology, including genetics, molecular biology, biochemistry, embryology, and cell biology. Many aspects of biotechnology center around DNA and its applications, otherwise known as DNA technology. We could devote a whole textbook to current applications of biotechnology, however, we will focus on the applications towards medicine and agriculture, and the extension into the forensic sciences. First, though, we need to understand DNA technology.
Answer: biology

Question: What mechanism is used by living organisms to pass along genes?
Context: 16 Gregor Mendel and biological inheritance Charles Darwin1 , for all he contributed to the science of biology, never knew about the mechanism by which living things inherit traits from previous generations, or how new traits arise. As any schoolchild can tell you, this mechanism of interitance has since been found to be DNA2 , or deoxyribonucleic acid. DNA allows for stable inheritance of traits: the code in each strand of DNA is replicated precisely through the pairing of basic units along each strand. The error rate in this replication is amazingly low; not even one base pair in a million matches out of sequence. However, when even one base pair is added to a new strain of DNA in an order differently than in the parent chain, it can be the basis of a mutation. These changes in DNA sequences are the microscopic origin of changes in traits of all studied living things. Even the smallest difference in a strand of DNA can result in a change in traits that can cost the life of the organism. Mutations can produce proteins with a new or altered function. In humans, the example of Sickle cell anemia3 is commonly given as its origin is a difference of only one base pair in a section of DNA that encodes red blood cells. Individual sequences of DNA that encode for specific proteins are called genes and are the units of heredity. Each one has a set nucleotide4 , and together all of the genes (and some sequence of DNA that apparently do not code for any biologically important functions) together make up the entire chromosome5.
Answer: dna

Question: Rudolf virchow developed the hypothesis that cells only come from other cells in what year?
Context: In 1858, after using microscopes much better than Hooke’s first microscope, Rudolf Virchow developed the hypothesis that cells only come from other cells. For example, bacteria, which are single-celled organisms, divide in half (after they grow some) to make new bacteria. In the same way, your body makes new cells by dividing the cells you already have. In all cases, cells only come from cells that have existed before. This idea led to the development of one of the most important theories in biology, the cell theory .
Answer: 1858

Question: In the past, biologists grouped living organisms into five kingdoms: animals, plants, fungi, protists, and what?
Context: Carl Woese and the Phylogenetic Tree In the past, biologists grouped living organisms into five kingdoms: animals, plants, fungi, protists, and bacteria. The organizational scheme was based mainly on physical features, as opposed to physiology, biochemistry, or molecular biology, all of which are used by modern systematics. The pioneering work of American microbiologist Carl Woese in the early 1970s has shown, however, that life on Earth has evolved along three lineages, now called domains—Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya. The first two are prokaryotic cells with microbes that lack membrane-enclosed nuclei and organelles. The third domain contains the eukaryotes and includes unicellular microorganisms together with the four original kingdoms (excluding bacteria). Woese defined Archaea as a new domain, and this resulted in a new taxonomic tree (Figure 1.17). Many organisms belonging to the Archaea domain live under extreme conditions and are called extremophiles. To construct his tree, Woese used genetic relationships rather than similarities based on morphology (shape). Woese’s tree was constructed from comparative sequencing of the genes that are universally distributed, present in every organism, and conserved (meaning that these genes have remained essentially unchanged throughout evolution). Woese’s approach was revolutionary because comparisons of physical features are insufficient to differentiate between the prokaryotes that appear fairly similar in spite of their tremendous biochemical diversity and genetic variability (Figure 1.18). The comparison of homologous DNA and RNA sequences provided Woese with a sensitive device that revealed the extensive variability of prokaryotes, and which justified the separation of the prokaryotes into two domains: bacteria and archaea.
Answer: bacteria

Question: What mammal is the most intelligent?
Context: In this lesson, you learned some of the ways that humans differ from other mammals. For example, humans have a larger and more complex brain than other mammals. That’s why they are also the most intelligent mammals. The next chapter introduces the biology of the human animal.
Answer: humans

Question: What is the science of how living things interact with each other and their environment?
Context: The science of how living things interact with each other and their environment is called ecology. Ecology is a major branch of life science, but it overlaps with many other fields. For example, it shares data and theories with geography, biology, climatology, and other sciences. In this lesson, you’ll learn some of the basic concepts of ecology.
Answer: ecology

Question: What do you call the regular changes in biology or behavior that occur in a 24-hour cycle?
Context: Circadian rhythms are regular changes in biology or behavior that occur in a 24-hour cycle. In humans, for example, blood pressure and body temperature change in a regular way throughout each 24-hour day. Animals may eat and drink at certain times of day as well. Humans have daily cycles of behavior, too. Most people start to get sleepy after dark and have a hard time sleeping when it is light outside. In many species, including humans, circadian rhythms are controlled by a tiny structure called the biological clock . This structure is located in a gland at the base of the brain. The biological clock sends signals to the body. The signals cause regular changes in behavior and body processes. The amount of light entering the eyes helps control the biological clock. The clock causes changes that repeat every 24 hours.
Answer: circadian rhythms

Question: The smallest unit of structure and function in all living organisms is what?
Context: The cell is the smallest unit of structure and function of all living organisms. Cell Biology focuses on significant aspects of the cell from its structure to its division. Some organisms contain just one cell, and others contain trillions. Some have a nucleus with DNA, others do not. Some have many organelles, others do not. But all cells are surrounded by a cell membrane. And it is this semipermeable membrane that determines what can enter and leave the cell. All cells need energy, and for many organisms, this energy comes from photosynthesis and cellular respiration. All cells come from preexisting cells through the process of cell division, which can produce a new prokaryotic organism. The cell cycle, which includes mitosis, defines the life of an eukaryotic cell.
Answer: cell

Question: What branch of biology studies animal behavior?
Context: The branch of biology that studies animal behavior is called ethology . Ethologists usually study how animals behave in their natural environment, rather than in a lab. They generally try to answer four basic questions about the behaviors they observe:.
Answer: ethology

Question: What scientist constructed a tree diagram, separating living organisms into three domains?
Context: Figure 1.17 This phylogenetic tree was constructed by microbiologist Carl Woese using data obtained from sequencing ribosomal RNA genes. The tree shows the separation of living organisms into three domains: Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya. Bacteria and Archaea are prokaryotes, single-celled organisms lacking intracellular organelles. (credit: Eric Gaba; NASA Astrobiology Institute).
Answer: carl woese

Question: What theory of evolution is charles darwin most known for?
Context: Evolution focuses on past life forms and how they turned into present life forms. The history of life on Earth demonstrates how the first cells formed, turned into simple life forms, and then became more complex plants and animals. The studies of Charles Darwin have reshaped and influenced all aspects of biology. The vast amounts of evidence of evolution demonstrates the importance of the theory of evolution by natural selection. But has this process stopped? Of course not. Evolution does continue today.
Answer: natural selection

Question: Translation is the second part of the central dogma of what?
Context: Translation is the second part of the central dogma of molecular biology: RNA → Protein . It is the process in which the genetic code in mRNA is read, one codon at a time, to make a protein. Figure below shows how this happens. After mRNA leaves the nucleus, it moves to a ribosome , which consists of rRNA and proteins. The ribosome reads the sequence of codons in mRNA. Molecules of tRNA bring amino acids to the ribosome in the correct sequence.
Answer: molecular biology

Question: What type of science is the application of science to answer questions related to the law?
Context: Forensic Scientist Forensic science is the application of science to answer questions related to the law. Biologists as well as chemists and biochemists can be forensic scientists. Forensic scientists provide scientific evidence for use in courts, and their job involves examining trace material associated with crimes. Interest in forensic science has increased in the last few years, possibly because of popular television shows that feature forensic scientists on the job. Also, the development of molecular techniques and the establishment of DNA databases have updated the types of work that forensic scientists can do. Their job activities are primarily related to crimes against people such as murder, rape, and assault. Their work involves analyzing samples such as hair, blood, and other body fluids and also processing DNA (Figure 1.13) found in many different environments and materials. Forensic scientists also analyze other biological evidence left at crime scenes, such as insect parts or pollen grains. Students who want to pursue careers in forensic science will most likely be required to take chemistry and biology courses as well as some intensive math courses.
Answer: forensic

Question: A _______ of biology is a fundamental concept that is just as true for a bee or a sunflower as it is for us.
Context: The word principle can be defined as "a fundamental truth or proposition that serves as the foundation for a system of belief or behavior or for a chain of reasoning. " A principle of biology is a fundamental concept that is just as true for a bee or a sunflower as it is for us. All life, including that sunflower and bee, is made of at least one cell. The traits of a particular organism are embedded within its genes, that organism must maintain homeostasis to survive, and that organism has evolved from previously existing species.
Answer: principle

Question: What is the term for a natural situation which arises to physically divide organisms?
Context: If the two isolated populations are brought back together and the hybrid offspring that formed from matings between individuals of the two populations have lower survivorship or reduced fertility, then selection will favor individuals that are able to discriminate between potential mates of their own population and the other population. This selection will enhance the reproductive isolation. Isolation of populations leading to allopatric speciation can occur in a variety of ways: from a river forming a new branch, erosion forming a new valley, or a group of organisms traveling to a new location without the ability to return, such as seeds floating over the ocean to an island. The nature of the geographic separation necessary to isolate populations depends entirely on the biology of the organism and its potential for dispersal. If two flying insect populations took up residence in separate nearby valleys, chances are that individuals from each population would fly back and forth, continuing gene flow. However, if two rodent populations became divided by the formation of a new lake, continued gene flow would be unlikely; therefore, speciation would be more likely. Biologists group allopatric processes into two categories. If a few members of a species move to a new geographical area, this is called dispersal. If a natural situation arises to physically divide organisms, this is called vicariance. Scientists have documented numerous cases of allopatric speciation taking place. For example, along the west coast of the United States, two separate subspecies of spotted owls exist. The northern spotted owl has genetic and phenotypic differences from its close relative, the Mexican spotted owl, which lives in the south (Figure 11.15). The cause of their initial separation is not clear, but it may have been caused by the glaciers of the ice age dividing an initial population into [5] two.
Answer: vicariance

Question: Living things are highly organized following a hierarchy that includes atoms, molecules, organelles, cells, tissues, organs, and organ systems. organisms, in turn, are grouped as populations, communities, ecosystems, and this?
Context: CHAPTER SUMMARY 1.1 Themes and Concepts of Biology Biology is the science of life. All living organisms share several key properties such as order, sensitivity or response to stimuli, reproduction, adaptation, growth and development, regulation, homeostasis, and energy processing. Living things are highly organized following a hierarchy that includes atoms, molecules, organelles, cells, tissues, organs, and organ systems. Organisms, in turn, are grouped as populations, communities, ecosystems, and the biosphere. Evolution is the source of the tremendous biological diversity on Earth today. A diagram called a phylogenetic tree can be used to show evolutionary relationships among organisms. Biology is very broad and includes many branches and sub disciplines. Examples include molecular biology, microbiology, neurobiology, zoology, and botany, among others.
Answer: biosphere

Question: What is a person who studies the frequency and distribution of disease within human populations and environments called?
Context: Epidemiologist Epidemiology is the study of the occurrence, distribution, and determinants of health and disease in a population. It is, therefore, part of public health. An epidemiologist studies the frequency and distribution of diseases within human populations and environments. Epidemiologists collect data about a particular disease and track its spread to identify the original mode of transmission. They sometimes work in close collaboration with historians to try to understand the way a disease evolved geographically and over time, tracking the natural history of pathogens. They gather information from clinical records, patient interviews, surveillance, and any other available means. That information is used to develop strategies, such as vaccinations (Figure 22.26), and design public health policies to reduce the incidence of a disease or to prevent its spread. Epidemiologists also conduct rapid investigations in case of an outbreak to recommend immediate measures to control it. An epidemiologist has a bachelor’s degree, plus a master’s degree in public health (MPH). Many epidemiologists are also physicians (and have an M. ), or they have a Ph. in an associated field, such as biology or microbiology.
Answer: epidemiologist

Question: Scanning acoustic microscopes use what kind of waves to scan a specimen?
Context: Scanning acoustic microscopes use sound waves to scan a specimen. These microscopes are useful in biology and medical research.
Answer: sound waves

Question: What country put seven salyut space stations into orbit between 1971 and 1982?
Context: Between 1971 and 1982, the Soviets put a total of seven Salyut space stations into orbit. Figure below shows the last of these, Salyut 7. These were all temporary stations. They were launched and later inhabited by a human crew. Three of the Salyut stations were used for secret military purposes. The others were used to study the problems of living in space. Cosmonauts aboard the stations performed a variety of experiments in astronomy, biology, and Earth science. Salyut 6 and Salyut 7 each had two docking ports. One crew could dock a spacecraft to one end. A replacement crew could dock to the other end.
Answer: soviet union

Question: Where in relation to the home, are levels of vocs found to be higher?
Context: The processes of evolution are fundamental to much of biology. Why do people have such a hard time understanding them?.
Answer: indoors

Question: What is another term for life science?
Context: Life science is the study of life and living organisms. Life science is also called biology.
Answer: biology

