Question: What is a measure of the average amount of energy of motion, or kinetic energy, a system contains called?
Context: There are other units in chemistry that are important, and we will cover others in the course of the entire book. One of the fundamental quantities in science is temperature. Temperature is a measure of the average amount of energy of motion, or kinetic energy, a system contains. Temperatures are expressed using scales that use units called degrees, and there are several temperature scales in use. In the United States, the commonly used temperature scale is the Fahrenheit scale (symbolized by °F and spoken as “degrees Fahrenheit”). On this scale, the freezing point of liquid water (the temperature at which liquid water turns to solid ice) is 32°F, and the boiling point of water (the temperature at which liquid water turns to steam) is 212°F. Science also uses other scales to express temperature. The Celsius scale (symbolized by °C and spoken as “degrees Celsius”) is a temperature scale where 0°C is the freezing point of water and 100°C is the boiling point of water; the scale is divided into 100 divisions between these two landmarks and extended higher and lower. By comparing the Fahrenheit and Celsius scales, a conversion between the two scales can be determined: °C=(°F–32) × 59° Saylor URL: http://www. saylor. org/books.
Answer: temperature

Question: What is a mass spectrometer used to measure?
Context: Although the masses of the electron, the proton, and the neutron are known to a high degree of precision (Table 1.3 "Properties of Subatomic Particles*"), the mass of any given atom is not simply the sum of the masses of its electrons, protons, and neutrons. For example, the ratio of the masses of 1H (hydrogen) and 2H (deuterium) is actually 0.500384, rather than 0.49979 as predicted from the numbers of neutrons and protons present. Although the difference in mass is small, it is extremely important because it is the source of the huge amounts of energy released in nuclear reactions (Chapter 20 "Nuclear Chemistry"). Because atoms are much too small to measure individually and do not have a charge, there is no convenient way to accurately measure absolute atomic masses. Scientists can measure relative atomic masses very accurately, however, using an instrument called a mass spectrometer. The technique is conceptually similar to the one Thomson used to determine the mass-to-charge ratio of the electron. First, electrons are removed from or added to atoms or molecules, thus producing charged particles called ions. When an electric field is applied, the ions are accelerated into a separate chamber where they are deflected from their initial trajectory by a magnetic field, like the electrons in Thomson’s experiment. The extent of the deflection depends on the mass-to-charge ratio of the ion. By measuring the relative deflection of ions that have the same charge, scientists can determine their relative masses (Figure 1.25 "Determining Relative Atomic Masses Using a Mass Spectrometer"). Thus it is not possible to calculate absolute atomic masses accurately by simply adding together the masses of the electrons, the protons, and the neutrons, and absolute atomic masses cannot be measured, but relative masses can be measured very accurately. It is actually rather common in chemistry to encounter a quantity whose magnitude can be measured only relative to some other quantity, rather than absolutely. We will encounter many other examples later in this text. In such cases,.
Answer: relative atomic masses

Question: How many naturally occurring elements are known on earth?
Context: An element, as defined in Chapter 1 "Chemistry, Matter, and Measurement", is a substance that cannot be broken down into simpler chemical substances. There are about 90 naturally occurring elements known on Earth. Using technology, scientists have been able to create nearly 30 additional elements that do not occur in nature. Today, chemistry recognizes 118 elements—some of which were created an atom at a time. Figure 2.1 "Samples of Elements" shows some of the chemical elements.
Answer: 90

Question: Tests for levels of what in blood allow a diabetic patient to regulate how much insulin to administer?
Context: Laboratory testing has come to the local drug store or grocery store because of developments in chemistry. You can test your blood glucose using a simple portable device that runs a chemical test on the blood sample and tells you how much glucose is present, allowing a diabetic patient to regulate how much insulin to administer (chemistry is also used to produce the insulin and the disposable syringe that administers the drug).
Answer: glucose

Question: What a mixture of nitric acid and hydrochloric acid?
Context: Aqua regia, a mixture of nitric acid and hydrochloric acid, is one of the few materials that will dissolve gold. This material, translated to "royal water" in English, was named so because it could dissolve the royal metal gold. First noted in the fourteenth century, aqua regia could be used to help ascertain whether a particular material was actually gold or was some trickery of the alchemist. Nitric acid by itself will not dissolve gold, but will in combination with hydrochloric acid. The chemistry of the process is rather complex, with both acids reacting with the metal to form soluble gold compounds. The gold can be recovered from the solution, making the process useful for purification purposes.
Answer: aqua regia

Question: What is the name for a biologist who studies fungi?
Context: Mycologist Mycologists are biologists who study fungi. Mycology is a branch of microbiology, and many mycologists start their careers with a degree in microbiology. To become a mycologist, a bachelor's degree in a biological science (preferably majoring in microbiology) and a master's degree in mycology are minimally necessary. Mycologists can specialize in taxonomy and fungal genomics, molecular and cellular biology, plant pathology, biotechnology, or biochemistry. Some medical microbiologists concentrate on the study of infectious diseases caused by fungi (mycoses). Mycologists collaborate with zoologists and plant pathologists to identify and control difficult fungal infections, such as the devastating chestnut blight, the mysterious decline in frog populations in many areas of the world, or the deadly epidemic called white nose syndrome, which is decimating bats in the Eastern United States. Government agencies hire mycologists as research scientists and technicians to monitor the health of crops, national parks, and national forests. Mycologists are also employed in the private sector by companies that develop chemical and biological control products or new agricultural products, and by companies that provide disease control services. Because of the key role played by fungi in the fermentation of alcohol and the preparation of many important foods, scientists with a good understanding of fungal physiology routinely work in the food technology industry. Oenology, the science of wine making, relies not only on the knowledge of grape varietals and soil composition, but also on a solid understanding of the characteristics of the wild yeasts that thrive in different wine-making regions. It is possible to purchase yeast strains isolated from specific grape-growing regions. The great French chemist and microbiologist, Louis Pasteur, made many of his essential discoveries working on the humble brewer’s yeast, thus discovering the process of fermentation.
Answer: mycologists

Question: What is paleobotany?
Context: Paleobotanist How organisms acquired traits that allow them to colonize new environments—and how the contemporary ecosystem is shaped—are fundamental questions of evolution. Paleobotany (the study of extinct plants) addresses these questions through the analysis of fossilized specimens retrieved from field studies, reconstituting the morphology of organisms that disappeared long ago. Paleobotanists trace the evolution of plants by following the modifications in plant morphology: shedding light on the connection between existing plants by identifying common ancestors that display the same traits. This field seeks to find transitional species that bridge gaps in the path to the development of modern organisms. Fossils are formed when organisms are trapped in sediments or environments where their shapes are preserved. Paleobotanists collect fossil specimens in the field and place them in the context of the geological sediments and other fossilized organisms surrounding them. The activity requires great care to preserve the integrity of the delicate fossils and the layers of rock in which they are found. One of the most exciting recent developments in paleobotany is the use of analytical chemistry and molecular biology to study fossils. Preservation of molecular structures requires an environment free of oxygen, since oxidation and degradation of material through the activity of microorganisms depend on its presence. One example of the use of analytical chemistry and molecular biology is the identification of oleanane, a compound that deters pests. Up to this point, oleanane appeared to be unique to flowering plants; however, it has now been recovered from sediments dating from the Permian, much earlier than the current dates given for the appearance of the first flowering plants. Paleobotanists can also study fossil DNA, which can yield a large amount of information, by analyzing and comparing the DNA sequences of extinct plants with those of living and related organisms. Through this analysis, evolutionary relationships can be built for plant lineages. Some paleobotanists are skeptical of the conclusions drawn from the analysis of molecular fossils. For example, the chemical materials of interest degrade rapidly when exposed to air during their initial isolation, as well as in further manipulations. There is always a high risk of contaminating the specimens with extraneous material, mostly from microorganisms. Nevertheless, as technology is refined, the analysis of DNA from fossilized plants will provide invaluable information on the evolution of plants and their adaptation to an ever-changing environment.
Answer: study of extinct plants

Question: The periodic table is one of the cornerstones of chemistry because it organizes all the known elements on the basis of their what?
Context: The periodic table is one of the cornerstones of chemistry because it organizes all the known elements on the basis of their chemical properties. A modern version is shown in Figure 2.7 "A Modern Periodic Table". Most periodic tables provide additional data (such as atomic mass) in a box that contains each element’s symbol. The elements are listed in order of atomic number.
Answer: chemical properties

Question: What is the study of matter and the changes that material substances undergo.
Context: Chemistry is the study of matter and the changes that material substances undergo. Of all the scientific disciplines, it is perhaps the most extensively connected to other fields of study. Geologists who want to locate new mineral or oil deposits use chemical techniques to analyze and identify rock samples. Oceanographers use chemistry to track ocean currents, determine the flux of nutrients into the sea, and measure the rate of exchange of nutrients between ocean layers. Engineers consider the relationships between the structures and the properties of substances when they specify materials for various uses. Physicists take advantage of the properties of substances to detect new subatomic particles. Astronomers use chemical signatures to determine the age and distance of stars and thus answer questions about how stars form and how old the universe is. The entire subject of environmental science depends on chemistry to explain the origin and impacts of phenomena such as air pollution, ozone layer depletion, and global warming. The disciplines that focus on living organisms and their interactions with the physical world rely heavily on biochemistry, the application of chemistry to the study of biological processes. A living cell contains a large collection of complex molecules that carry out thousands of chemical reactions, including those that are necessary for.
Answer: chemistry

Question: What is the study of the interaction between matter and energy called?
Context: Chemistry is the study of matter and energy and how they interact, mainly at the level of atoms and molecules. Basic concepts in chemistry include chemicals, which are specific types of matter, and chemical reactions. In a chemical reaction, atoms or molecules of certain types of matter combine chemically to form other types of matter. All chemical reactions involve energy.
Answer: chemistry

Question: When we move down a group of elements on the periodic table, what happens to their electronegativity?
Context: The nonmetals are elements located in the upper right portion of the periodic table. Their properties and behavior are quite different from those of metals on the left side. Under normal conditions, more than half of the nonmetals are gases, one is a liquid, and the rest include some of the softest and hardest of solids. The nonmetals exhibit a rich variety of chemical behaviors. They include the most reactive and least reactive of elements, and they form many different ionic and covalent compounds. This section presents an overview of the properties and chemical behaviors of the nonmetals, as well as the chemistry of specific elements. Many of these nonmetals are important in biological systems. In many cases, trends in electronegativity enable us to predict the type of bonding and the physical states in compounds involving the nonmetals. We know that electronegativity decreases as we move down a given group and increases as we move from left to right across a period. The nonmetals have higher electronegativities than do metals, and compounds formed between metals and nonmetals are generally ionic in nature because of the large differences in electronegativity between them. The metals form cations, the nonmetals form anions, and the resulting compounds are solids under normal conditions. On the other hand, compounds formed between two or more nonmetals have small differences in electronegativity between the atoms, and covalent bonding—sharing of electrons—results. These substances tend to be molecular in nature and are gases, liquids, or volatile solids at room temperature and pressure. In normal chemical processes, nonmetals do not form monatomic positive ions (cations) because their ionization energies are too high. All monatomic nonmetal ions are anions; examples include the chloride ion, Cl−, the nitride ion, N3−, and the selenide ion, Se2−. The common oxidation states that the nonmetals exhibit in their ionic and covalent compounds are shown in Figure 18.19. Remember that an element exhibits a positive oxidation state when combined with a more electronegative element and that it exhibits a negative oxidation state when combined with a less electronegative element.
Answer: it decreases

Question: What branch of physical science looks at how heat, work, and various forms of energy are related to one another?
Context: Just as the burning of wood releases energy in the form of heat, many other chemical reactions also release heat. There are also chemical reactions, such as photosynthesis in plants, which absorb energy in the form of heat. The study of energy changes in chemical reactions is called thermochemistry . The broader term thermodynamics also looks at how heat, work, and various forms of energy are related to one another. In this lesson, we will study the difference between reactions that absorb versus release heat as well as how to measure this change in energy.
Answer: thermodynamics

Question: What type of chemistry is the study of the composition of matter?
Context: Analytical chemistry is the study of the composition of matter. It focuses on separating, identifying, and quantifying chemicals in samples of matter. An analytical chemist may use complex instruments to analyze an unknown material in order to determine its various components.
Answer: analytical

Question: What was the early study of chemistry called?
Context: However, despite this secrecy several contributions were made to modern-day chemistry. Early acids and bases were discovered, and glassware for running chemical reactions was developed. Alchemy helped improve the study of metallurgy and the extraction of metals from ores. More systematic approaches to research were being developed, although the idea of orderly scientific experimentation was not yet well-established. The groundwork was being laid for the development of chemistry as a foundational science.
Answer: alchemy

Question: What are the three fundamental phases of matter?
Context: is the phase (or state) of matter. The three fundamental phases of matter are solid, liquid, and gas (see Figure 1.1 "The Phases of Matter"). Chemical properties are characteristics of matter that describe how matter changes form in the presence of other matter. Does a sample of matter burn? Burning is a chemical property. Does it behave violently when put in water? This reaction is a chemical property as well (Figure 1.2 "Chemical Properties"). In the following chapters, we will see how descriptions of physical and chemical properties are important aspects of chemistry. If matter always stayed the same, chemistry would be rather boring. Fortunately, a major part of chemistry involves change. A physical change occurs when a sample of matter changes one or more of its physical properties. For example, a solid may melt (Figure 1.3 "Physical Changes"), or alcohol in a thermometer may change volume as the temperature changes. A physical change does not affect the chemical composition of matter. A chemical change is the process of demonstrating a chemical property, such as the burning match in Figure 1.2 "Chemical Properties". As the matter in the match burns, its chemical composition changes, and new forms of matter with new physical properties are created. Note that chemical changes are frequently accompanied by physical changes, as the new matter will likely have different physical properties from the original matter.
Answer: solid, liquid, and gas

Question: What is the colorless gas with a sharp, pungent odor used in smelling salts?
Context: Ammonia is a colorless gas with a sharp, pungent odor. Smelling salts utilize this powerful odor. Gaseous ammonia readily liquefies to give a colorless liquid that boils at −33 °C. Due to intermolecular hydrogen bonding, the enthalpy of vaporization of liquid ammonia is higher than that of any other liquid except water, so ammonia is useful as a refrigerant. Ammonia is quite soluble in water (658 L at STP dissolves in 1 L H2O). The chemical properties of ammonia are as follows: 1. Ammonia acts as a Brønsted base, as discussed in the chapter on acid-base chemistry. The ammonium ion is.
Answer: ammonia

Question: The scientific method is a method of research with defined steps that include experiments and careful what?
Context: that have taken place during this time. There are however, areas of knowledge and human experience that the methods of science cannot be applied to. These include such things as answering purely moral questions, aesthetic questions, or what can be generally categorized as spiritual questions. Science has cannot investigate these areas because they are outside the realm of material phenomena, the phenomena of matter and energy, and cannot be observed and measured. The scientific method is a method of research with defined steps that include experiments and careful observation. The steps of the scientific method will be examined in detail later, but one of the most important aspects of this method is the testing of hypotheses. A hypothesis is a suggested explanation for an event, which can be tested. Hypotheses, or tentative explanations, are generally produced within the context of a scientific theory. A scientific theory is a generally accepted, thoroughly tested and confirmed explanation for a set of observations or phenomena. Scientific theory is the foundation of scientific knowledge. In addition, in many scientific disciplines (less so in biology) there are scientific laws, often expressed in mathematical formulas, which describe how elements of nature will behave under certain specific conditions. There is not an evolution of hypotheses through theories to laws as if they represented some increase in certainty about the world. Hypotheses are the day-to-day material that scientists work with and they are developed within the context of theories. Laws are concise descriptions of parts of the world that are amenable to formulaic or mathematical description. Natural Sciences What would you expect to see in a museum of natural sciences? Frogs? Plants? Dinosaur skeletons? Exhibits about how the brain functions? A planetarium? Gems and minerals? Or maybe all of the above? Science includes such diverse fields as astronomy, biology, computer sciences, geology, logic, physics, chemistry, and mathematics (Figure 1.16). However, those fields of science related to the physical world and its phenomena and processes are considered natural sciences. Thus, a museum of natural sciences might contain any of the items listed above.
Answer: observation

Question: What makes organic compounds ubiquitous is the chemistry of their what?
Context: The Chemistry of Carbon What makes organic compounds ubiquitous is the chemistry of their carbon core. Recall that carbon atoms have four electrons in their valence shell, and that the octet rule dictates that atoms tend to react in such a way as to complete their valence shell with eight electrons. Carbon atoms do not complete their valence shells by donating or accepting four electrons. Instead, they readily share electrons via covalent bonds.
Answer: carbon core

Question: Photosynthesis converts carbon dioxide and water into what?
Context: In food chemistry, the substances known as antioxidants are reducing agents. Ascorbic acid (vitamin C; C6H8O6) is thought to retard potentially damaging oxidation of living cells. In the process, it is oxidized to dehydroascorbic acid (C6H6O6). In the stomach, ascorbic acid reduces the nitrite ion (NO2−) to nitric oxide (NO): C6H8O6 + 2H+ + 2NO2− → C6H6O6 + 2H2O + 2NO If this reaction did not occur, nitrite ions from foods would oxidize the iron in hemoglobin, destroying its ability to carry oxygen. Tocopherol (vitamin E) is also an antioxidant. In the body, vitamin E is thought to act by scavenging harmful by-products of metabolism, such as the highly reactive molecular fragments called free radicals. In foods, vitamin E acts to prevent fats from being oxidized and thus becoming rancid. Vitamin C is also a good antioxidant. Finally, and of greatest importance, green plants carry out the redox reaction that makes possible almost all life on Earth. They do this through a process calledphotosynthesis, in which carbon dioxide and water are converted to glucose (C6H12O6). The synthesis of glucose requires a variety of proteins called enzymes and a green pigment called chlorophyll that converts sunlight into chemical energy (Figure 5.7 "Life on Earth"). The overall change that occurs is as follows:.
Answer: glucose

Question: What science is the study of matter and the changes it undergoes?
Context: Chemistry is the study of matter and the changes it undergoes.
Answer: chemistry

Question: What type of ionic compound is formed from acid and bases reacting with each other?
Context: Acids have some properties in common. They turn litmus, a plant extract, red. They react with some metals to give off H2 gas. They react with carbonate and hydrogen carbonate salts to give off CO2 gas. Acids that are ingested typically have a sour, sharp taste. (The name acid comes from the Latin word acidus, meaning “sour. ”) Bases also have some properties in common. They are slippery to the touch, turn litmus blue, and have a bitter flavor if ingested. Acids and bases have another property: they react with each other to make water and an ionic compound called a salt. A salt, in chemistry, is any ionic compound made by combining an acid with a base. A reaction between an acid and a base is called a neutralization reaction and can be represented as follows: acid + base → H2O + salt The stoichiometry of the balanced chemical equation depends on the number of H+ions in the acid and the number of OH− ions in the base.
Answer: salt

Question: What field of study is called the language of science?
Context: The field of science has gotten so big that it is common to separate it into more specific fields. First, there is mathematics, the language of science. All scientific fields use mathematics to express themselves—some more than others. Physics and astronomy are scientific fields concerned with the fundamental interactions between matter and energy. Chemistry, as defined previously, is the study of the interactions of matter with other matter and with energy. Biology is the study of living organisms, while geology is the study of the earth. Other sciences can be named as well. Understand that these fields are not always completely separate; the boundaries between scientific fields are not always readily apparent. Therefore, a scientist may be labeled a biochemist if he or she studies the chemistry of biological organisms. Finally, understand that science can be either qualitative or quantitative. Qualitative implies a description of the quality of an object. For example, physical properties are generally qualitative descriptions: sulfur is yellow, your math book is heavy, or that statue is pretty. A quantitative description represents the specific amount of something; it means knowing how much of something is present, usually by counting or measuring it. As such, some quantitative descriptions would include 25 students in a class, 650 pages in a book, or a velocity of 66 miles per hour. Quantitative expressions are very important in science; they are also very important in chemistry.
Answer: mathematics

Question: Chemistry and physics are fields in what type of science?
Context: The space shuttle program has been very successful. Over 100 mission have been flown. Space shuttle missions have made many scientific discoveries. Crews have launched many satellites. There have been other great achievements in space. However, the program has also had two tragic disasters.
Answer: physical

Question: Atoms with the same atomic number but different mass numbers are called what?
Context: Nuclear chemistry is the study of reactions that involve changes in nuclear structure. The chapter on atoms, molecules, and ions introduced the basic idea of nuclear structure, that the nucleus of an atom is composed of protons and, with the exception of 11 H, neutrons. Recall that the number of protons in the nucleus is called the atomic number (Z) of the element, and the sum of the number of protons and the number of neutrons is the mass number (A). Atoms with the same atomic number but different mass numbers are isotopes of the same element. When referring to a single type of nucleus, we often use the term nuclide and identify it by the notation A where X is the symbol Z X, 14 ⎞ Often a nuclide is referenced 6 C⎠. example, 146 C is called “carbon-14.
Answer: isotopes

Question: Mass spectrometry today is used extensively in chemistry and biology laboratories to identify chemical and biological substances according to their ratios of what?
Context: Mass spectrometry today is used extensively in chemistry and biology laboratories to identify chemical and biological substances according to their mass-to-charge ratios. In medicine, mass spectrometers are used to measure the concentration of isotopes used as tracers. Usually, biological molecules such as proteins are very large, so they are broken down into smaller fragments before analyzing. Recently, large virus particles have been analyzed as a whole on mass spectrometers. Sometimes a gas chromatograph or high-performance liquid chromatograph provides an initial separation of the large molecules, which are then input into the mass spectrometer.
Answer: mass-to-charge

Question: What kind of process occurs naturally under certain conditions, unlike its opposite, which will not take place unless it is “driven” by the continual input of energy from an external source?
Context: Spontaneous and Nonspontaneous Processes Processes have a natural tendency to occur in one direction under a given set of conditions. Water will naturally flow downhill, but uphill flow requires outside intervention such as the use of a pump. Iron exposed to the earth’s atmosphere will corrode, but rust is not converted to iron without intentional chemical treatment. A spontaneous process is one that occurs naturally under certain conditions. A nonspontaneous process, on the other hand, will not take place unless it is “driven” by the continual input of energy from an external source. A process that is spontaneous in one direction under a particular set of conditions is nonspontaneous in the reverse direction. At room temperature and typical atmospheric pressure, for example, ice will spontaneously melt, but water will not spontaneously freeze. The spontaneity of a process is not correlated to the speed of the process. A spontaneous change may be so rapid that it is essentially instantaneous or so slow that it cannot be observed over any practical period of time. To illustrate this concept, consider the decay of radioactive isotopes, a topic more thoroughly treated in the chapter on nuclear chemistry. Radioactive decay is by definition a spontaneous process in which the nuclei of unstable isotopes emit radiation as they are converted to more stable nuclei. All the decay processes occur spontaneously, but the rates at which different isotopes decay vary widely. Technetium-99m is a popular radioisotope for medical imaging studies that undergoes relatively rapid decay and exhibits a half-life of about six hours. Uranium-238 is the most abundant isotope of uranium, and its decay occurs much more slowly, exhibiting a half-life of more than four billion years (Figure 16.2).
Answer: spontaneous process

Question: Variation in muscle cells gives further insight into some benefits of what type of respiration?
Context: Variation in muscle cells gives further insight into some benefits of anaerobic respiration. In vertebrate muscles, lactic acid fermentation allows muscles to produce ATP quickly during short bursts of strenuous activity. Muscle cells specialized for this type of activity show differences in structure as well as chemistry. Red muscle fibers are “dark” because they have a rich blood supply for a steady supply of oxygen, and a protein, myoglobin, which holds extra oxygen. They also contain more mitochondria, the organelle in which the Krebs cycle and electron transport chain conclude aerobic respiration. This is endurance muscle. White muscle cells are “light” because they lack the rich blood supply, have fewer mitochondria, and store the carbohydrate glycogen rather than oxygen. This is muscle built for sprinting.
Answer: anaerobic

Question: What is used to measure blood pressure?
Context: Chemistry in Everyday Life Measuring Blood Pressure Blood pressure is measured using a device called a sphygmomanometer (Greek sphygmos = “pulse”). It consists of an inflatable cuff to restrict blood flow, a manometer to measure the pressure, and a method of determining when blood flow begins and when it becomes impeded (Figure 9.6). Since its invention in 1881, it has been an essential medical device. There are many types of sphygmomanometers: manual ones that require a stethoscope and are used by medical professionals; mercury ones, used when the most accuracy is required; less accurate mechanical ones; and digital ones that can be used with little training but that have limitations. When using a sphygmomanometer, the cuff is placed around the upper arm and inflated until blood flow is completely blocked, then slowly released. As the heart beats, blood forced through the arteries causes a rise in pressure. This rise in pressure at which blood flow begins is the systolic pressure—the peak pressure in the cardiac cycle. When the cuff’s pressure equals the arterial systolic pressure, blood flows past the cuff, creating audible sounds that can be heard using a stethoscope. This is followed by a decrease in pressure as the heart’s ventricles prepare for another beat. As cuff pressure continues to decrease, eventually sound is no longer heard; this is the diastolic pressure—the lowest pressure (resting phase) in the cardiac cycle. Blood pressure units from a sphygmomanometer are in terms of millimeters of mercury (mm Hg).
Answer: sphygmomanometer

Question: Esters are neutral compounds that undergo what process, which is a reaction with water?
Context: conditions. Esters are neutral compounds that undergo hydrolysis, a reaction with water. Under acidic conditions, hydrolysis is essentially the reverse of esterification. When carried out under basic conditions, the process is called saponification. Inorganic acids also react with alcohols to form esters. Some of the most important esters in biochemistry are those formed from phosphoric acid. Amines are nitrogen-containing organic molecules derived from ammonia (NH3). A primary (1°) amine (RNH2) has one organic group bonded to the nitrogen atom, a secondary (2°) amine (R2NH) has two organic groups bonded to the nitrogen atom, and a tertiary (3°) amine (R3N) has three organic groups bonded to the nitrogen atom. Amines are basic compounds that react with strong acids to produce ammonium (NH4+) salts. A cyclic compound in which the ring contains one or more noncarbon atoms is called a heterocyclic compound. There are many heterocyclic amines, including many physiologically important ones. Alkaloids are heterocyclic amines found in many plants. Caffeine, nicotine, and cocaine are familiar alkaloids. Organic compounds containing a carbonyl group bonded to a nitrogen atom are amides, and the carbon-to-nitrogen bond is an amide linkage (or a peptide linkage). Most amides are colorless and odorless, and the lighter ones are soluble in water. Because they are polar molecules, amides have comparatively high boiling points and melting points. Amides are synthesized from carboxylic acids and NH3 or amines. Amides are neutral compounds. They resist hydrolysis in water, but acids, bases, and enzymes catalyze the reaction.
Answer: hydrolysis

Question: What are the ice crystals that form on the ground called?
Context: Deposition as a change of state often occurs in nature. For example, when warm moist air comes into contact with very cold surfaces—such as the ground or objects on the ground—ice crystals are deposited on them. These ice crystals are commonly called frost. Look at the dead leaf and blades of grass in the Figure below . They are covered with frost. If you look closely, you can see the individual crystals of ice. You can watch a demonstration of frost forming on the side of a very cold can at the URL below. (Click on the mulitmedia choice “Ice on a Can. ”). The ice in the can has been cooled to a very low temperature by adding salt to it. If you want to do the demonstration yourself, follow the procedure at the URL. http://www. middleschoolchemistry. com/lessonplans/chapter2/lesson4.
Answer: frost

Question: One of the fundamental laws of chemistry deals with the fact that we cannot create or destroy what?
Context: One of the fundamental laws of chemistry deals with the fact that we cannot (using chemical means) create or destroy matter. When a reaction is run, the number of atoms of each specific type must be the same on both sides of the equation. For some materials, it turns out that one element can combine with a second element in more than one ratio. Carrying out mass ratio calculations helped establish the law of multiple proportions.
Answer: matter

Question: What term is used to describe a solution in which water is the solvent?
Context: Solutions We have previously defined solutions as homogeneous mixtures, meaning that the composition of the mixture (and therefore its properties) is uniform throughout its entire volume. Solutions occur frequently in nature and have also been implemented in many forms of manmade technology. We will explore a more thorough treatment of solution properties in the chapter on solutions and colloids, but here we will introduce some of the basic properties of solutions. The relative amount of a given solution component is known as its concentration. Often, though not always, a solution contains one component with a concentration that is significantly greater than that of all other components. This component is called the solvent and may be viewed as the medium in which the other components are dispersed, or dissolved. Solutions in which water is the solvent are, of course, very common on our planet. A solution in which water is the solvent is called an aqueous solution. A solute is a component of a solution that is typically present at a much lower concentration than the solvent. Solute concentrations are often described with qualitative terms such as dilute (of relatively low concentration) and concentrated (of relatively high concentration). Concentrations may be quantitatively assessed using a wide variety of measurement units, each convenient for particular applications. Molarity (M) is a useful concentration unit for many applications in chemistry. Molarity is defined as the number of moles of solute in exactly 1 liter (1 L) of the solution: M = mol solute L solution.
Answer: aqueous solution

Question: The electrons in a water molecule are more concentrated around the more highly charged oxygen nucleus than around this?
Context: We will find in Atomic Physics that the orbits of electrons are more properly viewed as electron clouds with the density of the cloud related to the probability of finding an electron in that location (as opposed to the definite locations and paths of planets in their orbits around the Sun). This cloud is shifted by the Coulomb force so that the atom on average has a separation of charge. Although the atom remains neutral, it can now be the source of a Coulomb force, since a charge brought near the atom will be closer to one type of charge than the other. Some molecules, such as those of water, have an inherent separation of charge and are thus called polar molecules. Figure ⎛ ⎞ 19.19 illustrates the separation of charge in a water molecule, which has two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom ⎝H 2 O⎠ . The water molecule is not symmetric—the hydrogen atoms are repelled to one side, giving the molecule a boomerang shape. The electrons in a water molecule are more concentrated around the more highly charged oxygen nucleus than around the hydrogen nuclei. This makes the oxygen end of the molecule slightly negative and leaves the hydrogen ends slightly positive. The inherent separation of charge in polar molecules makes it easier to align them with external fields and charges. Polar molecules therefore exhibit greater polarization effects and have greater dielectric constants. Those who study chemistry will find that the polar nature of water has many effects. For example, water molecules gather ions much more effectively because they have an electric field and a separation of charge to attract charges of both signs. Also, as brought out in the previous chapter, polar water provides a shield or screening of the electric fields in the highly charged molecules of interest in biological systems.
Answer: hydrogen nuclei

Question: What processes involve a transfer of electrons between the wire and the solution?
Context: Electrochemistry is the study of chemical processes that occur at the interface between an electron conductor, such as a wire, and a solution of electrolytes, which is often simply an ionic substance dissolved in water. Electrochemical processes involve a transfer of electrons between the wire and the solution. These reactions can be used to create electrical power, to purify metals, and to carry out a number of useful chemical transformations.
Answer: electrochemical

Question: Hemoglobin is responsible for transporting what within our blood?
Context: To predict the relative stabilities of metal complexes with different ligands. One of the most important properties of metallic elements is their ability to act as Lewis acids that form complexes with a variety of Lewis bases. A metal complex consists of a central metal atom or ion that is bonded to one or more ligands (from the Latinligare, meaning “to bind”), which are ions or molecules that contain one or more pairs of electrons that can be shared with the metal. Metal complexes can be neutral, such as Co(NH3)3Cl3; positively charged, such as [Nd(H2O)9]3+; or negatively charged, such as [UF8]4−. Electrically charged metal complexes are sometimes called complex ions. A coordination compound contains one or more metal complexes. Coordination compounds are important for at least three reasons. First, most of the elements in the periodic table are metals, and almost all metals form complexes, so metal complexes are a feature of the chemistry of more than half the elements. Second, many industrial catalysts are metal complexes, and such catalysts are steadily becoming more important as a way to control reactivity. For example, a mixture of a titanium complex and an organometallic compound of aluminum is the catalyst used to produce most of the polyethylene and polypropylene “plastic” items we use every day. Finally, transition-metal complexes are essential in biochemistry. Examples include hemoglobin, an iron complex that transports oxygen in our blood; cytochromes, iron complexes that transfer electrons in our cells; and complexes of Fe, Zn, Cu, and Mo that are crucial components of certain enzymes, the catalysts for all biological reactions. Metal complexes are so important in biology that we consider the topic separately in Section 23.6 "Transition Metals in Biology".
Answer: oxygen

Question: Time, mass, length, and temperature are considered to be what kinds of units?
Context: Base units have independent scales and cannot be described by a combination of any other base units. Examples of base units used in chemistry are length, mass, temperature, and time.
Answer: base

Question: What branch of science is based on the modern atomic theory, which states that all matter is composed of atoms?
Context: Chemistry is based on the modern atomic theory, which states that all matter is composed of atoms.
Answer: chemistry

Question: Inorganic chemistry refers to the study of materials *not* containing which element?
Context: Inorganic chemistry is the study of chemicals that do not, in general, contain carbon. Inorganic chemicals are commonly found in rocks and minerals. One current important area of inorganic chemistry deals with the design and properties of materials involved in energy and information technology.
Answer: carbon

Question: An excellent solvent that holds heat well and allows hydrogen bonds, what substance has many properties critical to life?
Context: 2.2 Water Water has many properties that are critical to maintaining life. It is polar, allowing for the formation of hydrogen bonds, which allow ions and other polar molecules to dissolve in water. Therefore, water is an excellent solvent. The hydrogen bonds between water molecules give water the ability to hold heat better than many other substances. As the temperature rises, the hydrogen bonds between water continually break and reform, allowing for the overall temperature to remain stable, although increased energy is added to the system. Water’s cohesive forces allow for the property of surface tension. All of these unique properties of water are important in the chemistry of living organisms. The pH of a solution is a measure of the concentration of hydrogen ions in the solution. A solution with a high number of hydrogen ions is acidic and has a low pH value. A solution with a high number of hydroxide ions is basic and has a high pH value. The pH scale ranges from 0 to 14, with a pH of 7 being neutral. Buffers are solutions that moderate pH changes when an acid or base is added to the buffer system. Buffers are important in biological systems because of their ability to maintain constant pH conditions.
Answer: water

Question: Chemistry is the study of matter and energy and how they what?
Context: Chemistry is the study of matter and energy and how they interact, mainly at the level of atoms and molecules. Basic concepts in chemistry include chemicals and chemical reactions.
Answer: interact

Question: The periodic table is an arrangement of the elements in order of increasing what?
Context: Summary The periodic table is an arrangement of the elements in order of increasing atomic number. Elements that exhibit similar chemistry appear in vertical columns calledgroups (numbered 1–18 from left to right); the seven horizontal rows are calledperiods. Some of the groups have widely used common names, including thealkali metals (group 1) and the alkaline earth metals (group 2) on the far left, and the halogens (group 17) and the noble gases (group 18) on the far right. The elements can be broadly divided into metals, nonmetals, and semimetals. Semimetals exhibit properties intermediate between those of metals and nonmetals. Metals are located on the left of the periodic table, and nonmetals are located on the upper right. They are separated by a diagonal band of semimetals. Metals are lustrous, good conductors of electricity, and readily shaped (they areductile and malleable), whereas solid nonmetals are generally brittle and poor electrical conductors. Other important groupings of elements in the periodic table are the main group elements, the transition metals, the lanthanides, and the actinides.
Answer: atomic numbers

Question: What type of chemistry is the study of chemicals containing carbon called?
Context: Organic chemistry is the study of chemicals containing carbon. Carbon is one of the most abundant elements on Earth and is capable of forming a tremendously vast number of chemicals (over twenty million so far). Most of the chemicals found in all living organisms are based on carbon.
Answer: organic chemistry

Question: Boyle’s law applies to matter which is in what state?
Context: A piston having a certain pressure and volume (left piston) will have half the volume when its pressure is twice as much (right piston). One can also plot P versus V for a given amount of gas at a certain temperature; such a plot will look like the graph on the right. Boyle’s law is an example of a second type of mathematical problem we see in chemistry—one based on a mathematical formula. Tactics for working with mathematical formulas are different from tactics for working with conversion factors. First, most of the questions you will have to answer using formulas are word-type questions, so the first step is to identify what quantities are known and assign them to variables. Second, in most formulas, some mathematical rearrangements (i. , algebra) must be performed to solve for an unknown variable. The rule is that to find the value of the unknown variable, you must mathematically isolate the unknown variable by itself and in the numerator of one side of the equation. Finally, units must be consistent. For example, in Boyle’s law there are two pressure variables; they must have the same unit. There are also two volume variables; they also must have the same unit. In most cases, it won’t matter what the unit is, but the unit must be the same on both sides of the equation.
Answer: gas

Question: One of the early signs of cell disease is this "leaking" of what into the body cells?
Context: Potassium Concentration Glial cells, especially astrocytes, are responsible for maintaining the chemical environment of the CNS tissue. The concentrations of ions in the extracellular fluid are the basis for how the membrane potential is established and changes in electrochemical signaling. If the balance of ions is upset, drastic outcomes are possible. Normally the concentration of K+ is higher inside the neuron than outside. After the repolarizing phase of the action potential, K+ leakage channels and the Na+/K+ pump ensure that the ions return to their original locations. Following a stroke or other ischemic event, extracellular K+ levels are elevated. The astrocytes in the area are equipped to clear excess K+ to aid the pump. But when the level is far out of balance, the effects can be irreversible. Astrocytes can become reactive in cases such as these, which impairs their ability to maintain the local chemical environment. The glial cells enlarge and their processes swell. They lose their K+ buffering ability and the function of the pump is affected, or even reversed. One of the early signs of cell disease is this "leaking" of sodium ions into the body cells. This sodium/potassium imbalance negatively affects the internal chemistry of cells, preventing them from functioning normally.
Answer: sodium ions

Question: What is the measure of kinetic energy of the particles in matter?
Context: Temperature is a measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in matter. In everyday usage, temperature indicates a measure of how hot or cold an object is. Temperature is an important parameter in chemistry. When a substance changes from solid to liquid, it is because there was an increase in the temperature of the material. Chemical reactions usually proceed faster if the temperature is increased. Many unstable materials (such as enzymes) will be viable longer at lower temperatures.
Answer: temperature

Question: Translation is the process of ordering the amino acids in the assembly of a?
Context: Translation is the process of ordering the amino acids in the assembly of a protein. The word ribosome comes from ribo nucleic acid and the Greek soma (meaning body). Two Nobel Prizes have been awarded for work relating to the ribosome. The 1974 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded to Albert Claude, Christian de Duve and George Emil Palade for the discovery of the ribosome, and the 2009 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Venkatraman Ramakrishnan, Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for discovering the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome.
Answer: protein

Question: Changes in the color of the statue of liberty owe to oxidation-reduction reactions, or what simpler term?
Context: Chemistry in Everyday Life Statue of Liberty: Changing Colors The Statue of Liberty is a landmark every American recognizes. The Statue of Liberty is easily identified by its height, stance, and unique blue-green color (Figure 17.16). When this statue was first delivered from France, its appearance was not green. It was brown, the color of its copper “skin. ” So how did the Statue of Liberty change colors? The change in appearance was a direct result of corrosion. The copper that is the primary component of the statue slowly underwent oxidation from the air. The oxidation-reduction reactions of copper metal in the environment occur in several steps. Copper metal is oxidized to copper(I) oxide (Cu2O), which is red, and then to copper(II) oxide, which is black.
Answer: corrosion

Question: The cytoplasm of prokaryotic cells has a high concentration of dissolved solutes. therefore, the osmotic pressure within the cell is what?
Context: The Cell Wall The cytoplasm of prokaryotic cells has a high concentration of dissolved solutes. Therefore, the osmotic pressure within the cell is relatively high. The cell wall is a protective layer that surrounds some cells and gives them shape and rigidity. It is located outside the cell membrane and prevents osmotic lysis (bursting due to increasing volume). The chemical composition of the cell walls varies between archaea and bacteria, and also varies between bacterial species. Bacterial cell walls contain peptidoglycan, composed of polysaccharide chains that are cross-linked by unusual peptides containing both L- and D-amino acids including D-glutamic acid and D-alanine. Proteins normally have only L-amino acids; as a consequence, many of our antibiotics work by mimicking D-amino acids and therefore have specific effects on bacterial cell wall development. There are more than 100 different forms of peptidoglycan. S-layer (surface layer) proteins are also present on the outside of cell walls of both archaea and bacteria. Bacteria are divided into two major groups: Gram positive and Gram negative, based on their reaction to Gram staining. Note that all Gram-positive bacteria belong to one phylum; bacteria in the other phyla (Proteobacteria, Chlamydias, Spirochetes, Cyanobacteria, and others) are Gram-negative. The Gram staining method is named after its inventor, Danish scientist Hans Christian Gram (1853–1938). The different bacterial responses to the staining procedure are ultimately due to cell wall structure. Gram-positive organisms typically lack the outer membrane found in Gram-negative organisms (Figure 22.15). Up to 90 percent of the cell wall in Gram-positive bacteria is composed of peptidoglycan, and most of the rest is composed of acidic substances called teichoic acids. Teichoic acids may be covalently linked to lipids in the plasma membrane to form lipoteichoic acids. Lipoteichoic acids anchor the cell wall to the cell membrane. Gram-negative bacteria have a relatively thin cell wall composed of a few layers of peptidoglycan (only 10 percent of the total cell wall), surrounded by an outer envelope containing lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and lipoproteins. This outer envelope is sometimes referred to as a second lipid bilayer. The chemistry of this outer envelope is very different, however, from that of the typical lipid bilayer that forms plasma membranes.
Answer: relatively high

Question: A refrigerator must do work to reverse the normal direction of what?
Context: A refrigerator must do work to reverse the normal direction of thermal energy flow. Work involves the use of force to move something, and doing work takes energy. In a refrigerator, the energy is usually provided by electricity. You can read in detail in the Figure below how a refrigerator does its work. For an animation of how a refrigerator works, go to this URL: http://www. chemistry. wustl. edu/~edudev/LabTutorials/CourseTutorials/LabTutorials/Thermochem/fridge_movie. html.
Answer: thermal energy flow

Question: What is the name of a branch of the chemistry that deals with the interconversion of chemical energy and electrical energy?
Context: Chemical reactions either absorb or release energy, which can be in the form of electricity. Electrochemistry is a branch of chemistry that deals with the interconversion of chemical energy and electrical energy. Electrochemistry has many common applications in everyday life. All sorts of batteries, from those used to power a flashlight to a calculator to an automobile, rely on chemical reactions to generate electricity. Electricity is used to plate objects with decorative metals like gold or chromium. Electrochemistry is important in the transmission of nerve impulses in biological systems. Redox chemistry, the transfer of electrons, is behind all electrochemical processes.
Answer: electrochemistry

Question: The two smallest carboxylic acids are formic acid and what else?
Context: The two smallest carboxylic acids are formic acid (found in the stingers of ants) and acetic acid (found in vinegar). Many organic compounds are considerably more complex than the examples described here. Many compounds, such as cholesterol discussed in the chapter-opening essay, contain more than one functional group. The formal names can also be quite complex. In http://catalog. flatworldknowledge. com/bookhub/reader/2547 - gobch12through http://catalog. flatworldknowledge. com/bookhub/reader/2547 - gob-ch15, we will examine the characteristics and chemistry of other important organic compounds and functional groups.
Answer: acetic acid

Question: What was first discovered in songbirds that produce new neurons while learning songs?
Context: Neurogenesis At one time, scientists believed that people were born with all the neurons they would ever have. Research performed during the last few decades indicates that neurogenesis, the birth of new neurons, continues into adulthood. Neurogenesis was first discovered in songbirds that produce new neurons while learning songs. For mammals, new neurons also play an important role in learning: about 1,000 new neurons develop in the hippocampus (a brain structure involved in learning and memory) each day. While most of the new neurons will die, researchers found that an increase in the number of surviving new neurons in the hippocampus correlated with how well rats learned a new task. Interestingly, both exercise and some antidepressant medications also promote neurogenesis in the hippocampus. Stress has the opposite effect. While neurogenesis is quite limited compared to regeneration in other tissues, research in this area may lead to new treatments for disorders such as Alzheimer’s, stroke, and epilepsy. How do scientists identify new neurons? A researcher can inject a compound called bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) into the brain of an animal. While all cells will be exposed to BrdU, BrdU will only be incorporated into the DNA of newly generated cells that are in S phase. A technique called immunohistochemistry can be used to attach a fluorescent label to the incorporated BrdU, and a researcher can use fluorescent microscopy to visualize the presence of BrdU, and thus new neurons, in brain tissue (Figure 16.20).
Answer: neurogenesis

Question: The theory of evolution by what (and other processes) explains both the diversity of organisms and how populations of organisms change over time?
Context: Biology has only a few over arching theories. One of these, the Cell Theory of Life, explains the historic continuity of organisms, while the Theory of Evolution by Natural Selection (and other processes), explains both the diversity of organisms and how populations of organisms change over time. Finally, the Physicochemical Theory of Life explains how it is that organisms can display their remarkable properties without violating the laws that govern all physical and chemical systems.40 What is life, exactly? Clearly, if we are going to talk about biology, and organisms and cells and such, we have to define exactly what we mean by life. This raises a problem peculiar to biology as a science. We cannot define life generically because we know of only one type of life. We do not know whether this type of life is the only type of life possible or whether radically different forms of life exist elsewhere in the universe or even on Earth, in as yet to be recognized forms. While you might think that we know of many different types of life, from mushrooms to whales, from humans to the bacterial communities growing on the surfaces of our teeth (that is what dental plaque is, after all), we will discover that the closer we look the more these different “types of life” are in fact all versions of a common underlying motif, they represent versions of a single type of life. Based on their common chemistry, molecular composition, cellular structure, and the way that they encode, read, and use hereditary information in the form of molecules of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), all topics we will consider in depth later on, there is no reasonable doubt that all organisms are related, they are descended from a common ancestor. We cannot currently answer the question of whether the origin of life is a simple, likely, and predictable event given the conditions that existed on the Earth when life first arose, or whether it is an extremely rare and unlikely event. In the absence of empirical data, one can question whether scientists are acting scientifically or more as lobbyists for their own pet projects when they talk about doing astrobiology or speculating on when and where we will discover alien life forms. That said, asking seemingly silly questions, provided that empirically-based answers can be generated, has often been the critical driver of scientific progress. Consider, for example, current searches for life on Earth, almost all of which are based on what we already know about life. Specifically, most of the methods used rely on the fact that all known organisms use DNA to encode their genetic information; these methods would not be expected to recognize dramatically different types of life; they certainly would not detect organisms that used a non-DNA method to encode genetic information. If we could generate living systems de novo in the laboratory we would have a better understanding of what functions are necessary for life and how to look for possible “non-standard” organisms using better methods. It might even lead to the discovery of alternative forms of life right here on Earth, assuming they exist.41 That said, until someone manages to create or identify such non-standard forms of life, it seems quite reasonable to concentrate on the characteristics of life as we know them.
Answer: natural selection

Question: There are a series of rules for naming branched alkanes (and, ultimately, for all organic compounds). these rules make up the system of nomenclature for naming what?
Context: Not all hydrocarbons are straight chains. Many hydrocarbons have branches of C atoms attached to a chain. These branched alkanes are isomers of straight-chain alkanes having the same number of C atoms. However, they are different compounds with different physical and chemical properties. As such, they need different names. How do we name branched hydrocarbons? There are a series of rules for naming branched alkanes (and, ultimately, for all organic compounds). These rules make up the system of nomenclature for naming organic molecules. Worldwide, the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) has developed the system of nomenclature for organic compounds. So these rules are sometimes called the IUPAC rules of nomenclature. By learning and applying these rules, you can name any organic compound when given its structure or determine the unique structure of a molecule from its name. You have already learned the basics of nomenclature—the names of the first 10 normal hydrocarbons. Here, we will add some steps to the procedure so you can name branched hydrocarbons. First, given the structure of an alkane, identify the longest continuous chain of C atoms. Note that the longest chain may not be drawn in a straight line. The longest chain determines the parent name of the hydrocarbon. For example, in the molecule.
Answer: organic molecules

Question: Organic chemistry is the study of the chemistry of what?
Context: Organic chemistry is the study of the chemistry of carbon compounds.
Answer: carbon compounds

Question: What is the study of structure, properties, and interactions of matter?
Context: Chemistry is the study of the structure, properties, and interactions of matter. Important concepts in chemistry include physical changes, such as water freezing, and chemical reactions, such as fireworks exploding. Chemistry concepts can answer all the questions on the left page of the notebook in Figure below . Do you know the answers?.
Answer: chemistry

Question: What branch of science is defined as the study of matter?
Context: 1.8 End-of-Chapter Material Chapter Summary To ensure that you understand the material in this chapter, you should review the meanings of the bold terms in the following summary and ask yourself how they relate to the topics in the chapter. Chemistry is the study of matter, which is anything that has mass and takes up space. Chemistry is one branch of science, which is the study of the natural universe. Like all branches of science, chemistry relies on the scientific method, which is a process of Saylor URL: http://www. saylor. org/books.
Answer: chemistry

Question: The field of organic chemistry studies the structure and reactivity of compounds containing what element?
Context: Since then, the distinction between organic and inorganic compounds and reactions has blurred. Currently, the field of organic chemistry studies the structure and reactivity of nearly all carbon-containing compounds. Over twenty million organic compounds are known, ranging from very simple molecules to complex proteins.
Answer: carbon

Question: Vitamins are organic compounds that are essential in very small amounts for the maintenance of normal what?
Context: Vitamins are organic compounds that are essential in very small (trace) amounts for the maintenance of normal metabolism. They generally cannot be synthesized at adequate levels by the body and must be obtained from the diet. The absence or shortage of a vitamin may result in a vitamin-deficiency disease. In the first half of the 20th century, a major focus of biochemistry was the identification, isolation, and characterization of vitamins. Despite accumulating evidence that people needed more than just carbohydrates, fats, and proteins in their diets for normal growth and health, it was not until the early 1900s that research established the need for trace nutrients in the diet. Because organisms differ in their synthetic abilities, a substance that is a vitamin for one species may not be so for another. Over the past 100 years, scientists have identified and isolated 13 vitamins required in the human diet and have divided them into two broad categories: the fat-soluble vitamins, which include vitamins A, D, E, and K, and the water-soluble vitamins, which are the B complex vitamins and vitamin C. All fatsoluble vitamins contain a high proportion of hydrocarbon structural components. There are one or two oxygen atoms present, but the compounds as a whole are nonpolar. In contrast, water-soluble vitamins contain large numbers of electronegative oxygen and nitrogen atoms, which can engage in hydrogen bonding with water. Most water-soluble vitamins act as coenzymes or are required for the synthesis of coenzymes. The fatsoluble vitamins are important for a variety of physiological functions. The key vitamins and their functions are found in Table 18.8 "Fat-Soluble Vitamins and Physiological Functions" and Table 18.9 "Water-Soluble Vitamins and Physiological Functions". Table 18.8 Fat-Soluble Vitamins and Physiological Functions Vitamin.
Answer: metabolism

Question: Carbon and what are the second and third most abundant elements in your body?
Context: 2.4 | Inorganic Compounds Essential to Human Functioning By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Compare and contrast inorganic and organic compounds • Identify the properties of water that make it essential to life • Explain the role of salts in body functioning • Distinguish between acids and bases, and explain their role in pH • Discuss the role of buffers in helping the body maintain pH homeostasis The concepts you have learned so far in this chapter govern all forms of matter, and would work as a foundation for geology as well as biology. This section of the chapter narrows the focus to the chemistry of human life; that is, the compounds important for the body’s structure and function. In general, these compounds are either inorganic or organic. • An inorganic compound is a substance that does not contain both carbon and hydrogen. A great many inorganic compounds do contain hydrogen atoms, such as water (H2O) and the hydrochloric acid (HCl) produced by your stomach. In contrast, only a handful of inorganic compounds contain carbon atoms. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is one of the few examples. • An organic compound, then, is a substance that contains both carbon and hydrogen. Organic compounds are synthesized via covalent bonds within living organisms, including the human body. Recall that carbon and hydrogen are the second and third most abundant elements in your body. You will soon discover how these two elements combine in the foods you eat, in the compounds that make up your body structure, and in the chemicals that fuel your functioning. The following section examines the three groups of inorganic compounds essential to life: water, salts, acids, and bases. Organic compounds are covered later in the chapter.
Answer: hydrogen

Question: Technetium is named after the greektechnikos, meaning “artificial,” because all its isotopes are what?
Context: Group 7 (Mn, Tc, and Re) Continuing across the periodic table, we encounter the group 7 elements (Table 23.5 "Some Properties of the Elements of Groups 6 and 7"). One group 7 metal (Mn) is usually combined with iron in an alloy called ferromanganese, which has been used since 1856 to improve the mechanical properties of steel by scavenging sulfur and oxygen impurities to form MnS and MnO. Technetium is named after the Greektechnikos, meaning “artificial,” because all its isotopes are radioactive. One isotope, 99mTc (m for metastable), has become an important biomedical tool for imaging internal organs. (For more information on biomedical imaging, see Chapter 20 "Nuclear Chemistry", Section 20.5 "Applied Nuclear Chemistry". ) Because of its scarcity, Re is one of the most expensive elements, and its applications are limited. It is, however, used in a bimetallic Pt/Re catalyst for refining high-octane gasoline. All three group 7 elements have seven valence electrons and can form compounds in the +7 oxidation state. Once again, the lightest element exhibits multiple oxidation states. Compounds of Mn in oxidation states ranging from −3 to +7 are known, with the most common being +2 and +4 (Figure 23.5 "Compounds of Manganese in Oxidation States +2 to +7"). In contrast, compounds of Tc and Re in the +2 oxidation state are quite rare. Because the electronegativity of Mn is anomalously low, elemental manganese is unusually reactive. In contrast, the chemistry of Tc is similar to that of Re because of their similar size and electronegativity, again a result of the lanthanide contraction. Due to the stability of the half-filled 3d5 electron configuration, the aqueous Mn3+ ion, with a 3d4 valence electron configuration, is a potent oxidant that is able to oxidize water. It is difficult to generalize about other oxidation states for Tc and Re because their stability depends dramatically on the nature of the compound. Consistent with higher oxidation states being more stable for the heavier transition metals, reacting Mn with F2 gives only MnF3, a high-melting, red-purple solid, whereas Re reacts with F 2 to give ReF7, a volatile, low-melting, yellow solid. Again, reaction with the less oxidizing, heavier halogens produces halides in lower oxidation states. Thus reaction with Cl 2, a weaker oxidant than F2, gives MnCl2 and ReCl6.
Answer: radioactive

Question: The enzyme pepsin works only in the presence of what?
Context: The enzyme pepsin works only in the presence of acid. A strong acid is secreted into the stomach. It provides the acid that pepsin needs. You will learn about acids in the next chapter, "Chemistry of Solutions. " Vinegar and lemon juice are two common acids.
Answer: acid

Question: The physical sciences can be divided into physics and what other science?
Context: Physical science, in turn, can be divided into chemistry and physics. Chemistry is the study of matter and energy at the scale of atoms and molecules. For example, the synthetic fibers in the swimmer’s suit were created in labs by chemists. Physics is the study of matter and energy at all scales—from the tiniest particles of matter to the entire universe. Knowledge of several important physics concepts—such as motion and forces—contributed to the design of the swimmer’s suit.
Answer: chemistry

Question: Robert merrifield developed the first synthetic approach for making what essential cell substances in the lab?
Context: Cells in our bodies have an intricate mechanism for the manufacture of proteins. Humans have to use other techniques in order to synthesize the same proteins in a lab. The chemistry of peptide synthesis is complicated. Both active groups on an amino acid can react and the amino acid sequence must be a specific one in order for the protein to function. Robert Merrifield developed the first synthetic approach for making proteins in the lab, a manual approach which was lengthy and tedious (and, he won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1984 for his work). Today however, automated systems can crank out a peptide in a very short period of time.
Answer: proteins

Question: The simplest organic compounds have hydrogen and what else?
Context: The simplest organic compounds are those composed of only two elements: carbon and hydrogen. These compounds are called hydrocarbons. Hydrocarbons themselves are separated into two types: aliphatic hydrocarbons and aromatic hydrocarbons. Aliphatic hydrocarbons are hydrocarbons based on chains of C atoms. There are three types of aliphatic hydrocarbons. Alkanes are aliphatic hydrocarbons with only single covalent bonds. Alkenes are hydrocarbons that contain at least one C–C double bond, and alkynes are hydrocarbons that contain a C–C triple bond. Occasionally, we find an aliphatic hydrocarbon with a ring of C atoms; these hydrocarbons are calledcycloalkanes (or cycloalkenes or cycloalkynes). Aromatic hydrocarbons have a special six-carbon ring called a benzene ring. Electrons in the benzene ring have special energetic properties that give benzene physical and chemical properties that are markedly different from alkanes. Originally, the term aromatic was used to describe this class of compounds because they were particularly fragrant. However, in modern chemistry the term aromatic denotes the presence of a six-membered ring that imparts different and unique properties to a molecule. The simplest alkanes have their C atoms bonded in a straight chain; these are callednormal alkanes. They are named according to the number of C atoms in the chain. The smallest alkane is methane:.
Answer: carbon

Question: What branch of science is the study of matter and energy?
Context: Physical science is the study of matter and energy. It includes the sciences of chemistry and physics. Most careers in physical science require a 4-year college degree in one of these fields. Some careers require more advanced education as well. For example, an astronaut might have a master’s degree or even a doctoral degree.
Answer: physical science

Question: What is the name of the science that studies matter and the changes material substances undergo?
Context: Summary Chemistry is the study of matter and the changes material substances undergo. It is essential for understanding much of the natural world and central to many other scientific disciplines, including astronomy, geology, paleontology, biology, and medicine.
Answer: chemistry

Question: Which common oxidizing agent can be used to oxidize alcohols?
Context: Oxidation-reduction reactions are of central importance in organic chemistry and biochemistry. The burning of fuels that provides the energy to maintain our civilization and the metabolism of foods that furnish the energy that keeps us alive both involve redox reactions. All combustion reactions are also redox reactions. A typical combustion reaction is the burning of methane, the principal component of natural gas (Figure 5.5 "The Burning of Natural Gas"). CH4 + 2O2 → CO2 + 2H2O In respiration, the biochemical process by which the oxygen we inhale in air oxidizes foodstuffs to carbon dioxide and water, redox reactions provide energy to living cells. A typical respiratory reaction is the oxidation of glucose (C6H12O6), the simple sugar we encountered in the chapter-opening essay that makes up the diet of yeast: C6H12O6 + 6O2 → 6CO2 + 6H2O Organic chemists use a variety of redox reactions. For example, potassium dichromate (K2Cr2O7) is a common oxidizing agent that can be used to oxidize alcohols (symbolized.
Answer: potassium dichromate

Question: A small molecule that binds to a larger molecule is known as a?
Context: http://www. kentchemistry. com/links/Kinetics/entropy. htm.
Answer: ligand

Question: Biochemistry is the study of the chemistry of?
Context: The related field of biochemistry overlaps to some extent with organic chemistry. Biochemistry is the study of the chemistry of living systems. Many biochemical compounds are considered to be organic chemicals. Both of the molecules shown above are biochemical materials in terms of their use in the body, but organic chemicals in terms of their structure and chemical reactivity.
Answer: living systems

Question: What is the accumulated total of all the biochemical reactions occurring in a cell or organism called?
Context: All living things—even the simplest life forms—have a complex chemistry. Living things consist of large, complex molecules, and they also undergo many complicated chemical changes to stay alive. Thousands (or more) of these chemical reactions occur in each cell at any given moment. Metabolism is the accumulated total of all the biochemical reactions occurring in a cell or organism. Complex chemistry is needed to carry out all the functions of life.
Answer: metabolism

Question: What do you call a substance that is not an acid or a base?
Context: What is one of the most important characteristics of a referee? A referee must be neutral. He can’t favor one team over the other. In chemistry, being neutral means not being an acid or a base. Pure water is an example of a neutral substance. In some chemical reactions, an acid and a base combine to form neutral products, including water. You’ll see how this happens when you read this article.
Answer: neutral

Question: Australia is home to many endemic species. the (a) wallaby (wallabia bicolor), a medium-sized member of the kangaroo family, is a pouched mammal, or this?
Context: Throughout Chemistry, you will find features that draw the students into scientific inquiry by taking selected topics a step further. Students and educators alike will appreciate discussions in these feature boxes. Chemistry in Everyday Life ties chemistry concepts to everyday issues and real-world applications of science that students encounter in their lives. Topics include cell phones, solar thermal energy power plants, plastics recycling, and measuring blood pressure. How Sciences Interconnect feature boxes discuss chemistry in context of its interconnectedness with other scientific disciplines. Topics include neurotransmitters, greenhouse gases and climate change, and proteins and enzymes. Portrait of a Chemist features present a short bio and an introduction to the work of prominent figures from history and present day so that students can see the “face” of contributors in this field as well as science in action.
Answer: marsupial

Question: Alchemy helped improve the study of metallurgy and the extraction of metals from what?
Context: However, out of all this secrecy came several contributions to modern-day chemistry. Early acids and bases were discovered. Glassware for running chemical reactions was developed. Alchemy helped improve the study of metallurgy and the extraction of metals from ores. More systematic approaches to research were being developed, although the idea of orderly scientific experimentation had not become well-established yet. But the groundwork was laid to the development of chemistry as a foundational science.
Answer: ores

Question: What are the two metals within a battery called?
Context: These values suggest that water should be oxidized at the anode because a smaller potential would be needed—using reaction (ii) for the oxidation would give a less-negative cell potential. When the experiment is run, it turns out chlorine, not oxygen, is produced at the anode. The unexpected process is so common in electrochemistry that it has been given the name overpotential. The overpotential is the difference between the theoretical cell voltage and the actual voltage that is necessary to cause electrolysis. It turns out that the overpotential for oxygen is rather high and effectively makes the reduction potential more positive. As a result, under normal conditions, chlorine gas is what actually forms at the anode. Now consider the cathode. Three reductions could occur:.
Answer: anode and a cathode

Question: What happens if a catalyst runs out?
Context: Chemistry in Everyday Life Transition Metal Catalysts One of the most important applications of transition metals is as industrial catalysts. As you recall from the chapter on kinetics, a catalyst increases the rate of reaction by lowering the activation energy and is regenerated in the catalytic cycle. Over 90% of all manufactured products are made with the aid of one or more catalysts. The ability to bind ligands and change oxidation states makes transition metal catalysts well suited for catalytic applications. Vanadium oxide is used to produce 230,000,000 tons of sulfuric acid worldwide each year, which in turn is used to make everything from fertilizers to cans for food. Plastics are made with the aid of transition metal catalysts, along with detergents, fertilizers, paints, and more (see Figure 19.26). Very complicated pharmaceuticals are manufactured with catalysts that are selective, reacting with one specific bond out of a large number of possibilities. Catalysts allow processes to be more economical and more environmentally friendly. Developing new catalysts and better understanding of existing systems are important areas of current research.
Answer: reaction slows

Question: What is the study of matter and energy referred to as?
Context: Physical science is the study of matter and energy. It includes chemistry, which focuses on matter, and physics, which focuses on energy.
Answer: physical science

Question: Over 90% of the energy we use comes originally from what?
Context: Over 90% of the energy we use comes originally from the sun. Every day, the sun provides the earth with almost 10,000 times the amount of energy necessary to meet all of the world’s energy needs for that day. Our challenge is to find ways to convert and store incoming solar energy so that it can be used in reactions or chemical processes that are both convenient and nonpolluting. Plants and many bacteria capture solar energy through photosynthesis. We release the energy stored in plants when we burn wood or plant products such as ethanol. We also use this energy to fuel our bodies by eating food that comes directly from plants or from animals that got their energy by eating plants. Burning coal and petroleum also releases stored solar energy: These fuels are fossilized plant and animal matter. This chapter will introduce the basic ideas of an important area of science concerned with the amount of heat absorbed or released during chemical and physical changes—an area called thermochemistry. The concepts introduced in this chapter are widely used in almost all scientific and technical fields. Food scientists use them to determine the energy content of foods. Biologists study the energetics of living organisms, such as the metabolic combustion of sugar into carbon dioxide and water. The oil, gas, and transportation industries, renewable energy providers, and many others endeavor to find better methods to produce energy for our commercial and personal needs. Engineers strive to improve energy efficiency, find better ways to heat and cool our homes, refrigerate our food and drinks, and meet the energy and cooling needs of computers and electronics, among other applications. Understanding thermochemical.
Answer: sun

Question: The chemistry of each element is determined by its number of what?
Context: assigned a unique one-, two-, or three-letter symbol. The names of the elements are listed in the periodic table, along with their symbols, atomic numbers, and atomic masses. The chemistry of each element is determined by its number of protons and electrons. In a neutral atom, the number of electrons equals the number of protons.
Answer: protons and electrons

Question: Which process helps bacteria in the gut break down the remains of the digested food?
Context: Behind every fart is an army of gut bacteria undergoing some crazy biochemistry. These bacteria break down the remains of digested food through fermentation, creating gas in the process. Learn what these bacteria have in common with beer brewing at http://youtu. be/R1kxajH629A?list=PLzMhsCgGKd1hoofiKuifwy6qRXZs7NG6a .
Answer: fermentation

Question: What type of science is the study of matter and energy and includes chemistry and physics?
Context: Physical science is the study of matter and energy. It includes chemistry and physics.
Answer: physical science

Question: What abbreviated form refers to oxidation-reduction reactions, which are part of respiration and photosynthesis?
Context: In stoichiometry, quantities of reactants and/or products can be related to each other using the balanced chemical equation. The coefficients in a balanced chemical reaction are used to devise the proper ratios that relate the number of molecules of one substance to the number of molecules of another substance. Chemical reactions can be classified by type. Combination reactions (also called composition reactions) make a substance from other substances. Decomposition reactions break one substance down into multiple substances. Combustion reactions combine molecular oxygen with the atoms of another reactant. Oxidation reactions are reactions in which an atom loses an electron. Reduction reactions are reactions in which an atom gains an electron. These two processes always occur together, so they are collectively referred to as oxidationreduction (or redox) reactions. The species being oxidized it called the reducing agent, while the species being reduced is the oxidizing agent. Alternate definitions of oxidation and reduction focus on the gain or loss of oxygen atoms, or the loss or gain of hydrogen atoms. Redox reactions are easily balanced if the overall reaction is first separated into half reactions, which are individually balanced. Oxidation-reduction reactions are common in organic and biological chemistry. Respiration, the process by which we inhale and metabolize oxygen, is a series of redox reactions. In the absence of oxygen, redox reactions still occur in a process called anaerobic metabolism. Antioxidants such as ascorbic acid also play a part in the human diet, acting as reducing agents in various biochemical reactions. Photosynthesis, the process by which plants convert water and carbon dioxide to glucose, is also based on redox reactions.
Answer: redox reactions

Question: When atoms gain or lose electrons, they can form electrically charged particles called what?
Context: In ordinary chemical reactions, the nucleus of each atom (and thus the identity of the element) remains unchanged. Electrons, however, can be added to atoms by transfer from other atoms, lost by transfer to other atoms, or shared with other atoms. The transfer and sharing of electrons among atoms govern the chemistry of the elements. During the formation of some compounds, atoms gain or lose electrons, and form electrically charged particles called ions (Figure 2.28).
Answer: ions

Question: The large hadron collider is the biggest type of what invention, which boosts particles to high energies?
Context: Chemistry in Everyday Life CERN Particle Accelerator Located near Geneva, the CERN (“Conseil Européen pour la Recherche Nucléaire,” or European Council for Nuclear Research) Laboratory is the world’s premier center for the investigations of the fundamental particles that make up matter. It contains the 27-kilometer (17 mile) long, circular Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the largest particle accelerator in the world (Figure 21.13). In the LHC, particles are boosted to high energies and are then made to collide with each other or with stationary targets at nearly the speed of light. Superconducting electromagnets are used to produce a strong magnetic field that guides the particles around the ring. Specialized, purpose-built detectors observe and record the results of these collisions, which are then analyzed by CERN scientists using powerful computers.
Answer: particle accelerator

Question: The scientific process of collecting data outside the lab (in the "wild") is known as what kind of work?
Context: Many Earth scientists collect data in the field, called field work . The data may be from observations or measurements. The scientists may create a geological map of the area. They might write detailed descriptions of the rocks and their relationships. They may collect samples to analyze in the lab. They may do a combination of all of these! Earth science laboratories contain high-tech equipment. That equipment can reveal the chemistry or age of a rock sample. Geologists do field work to look for resources. They may study a region for environmental cleanup. There are many other reasons for going in the field. One common reason is just to understand the region better.
Answer: field work

Question: What is the study of the relationship between electricity and chemical reactions called?
Context: Summary Electrochemistry is the study of the relationship between electricity and chemical reactions. The oxidation–reduction reaction that occurs during an electrochemical process consists of two halfreactions, one representing the oxidation process and one the reduction process. The sum of the halfreactions gives the overall chemical reaction. The overall redox reaction is balanced when the number of electrons lost by the reductant equals the number of electrons gained by the oxidant. An electric current is produced from the flow of electrons from the reductant to the oxidant. An electrochemical cell can either generate electricity from a spontaneous redox reaction or consume electricity to drive a nonspontaneous reaction. In a galvanic (voltaic) cell, the energy from a spontaneous reaction generates electricity, whereas in an electrolytic cell, electrical energy is consumed to drive a nonspontaneous redox reaction. Both types of cells use two electrodes that provide an electrical connection between systems that are separated in space. The oxidative half-reaction occurs at the anode, and the reductive half-reaction occurs at the cathode. A salt bridge connects the separated solutions, allowing ions to migrate to either solution to ensure the system’s electrical neutrality. A voltmeter is a device that measures the flow of electric current between two half-reactions. The potential of a cell, measured in volts, is the energy needed to move a charged particle in an electric field. An electrochemical cell can be described using line notation called a cell diagram, in which vertical lines indicate phase boundaries and the location of the salt bridge. Resistance to the flow of charge at a boundary is called the junction potential.
Answer: electrochemistry

Question: What important aspect of the scientific method is a suggested explanation for an event, which can be tested?
Context: The Process of Science Biology is a science, but what exactly is science? What does the study of biology share with other scientific disciplines? Science (from the Latin scientia, meaning “knowledge”) can be defined as knowledge that covers general truths or the operation of general laws, especially when acquired and tested by the scientific method. It becomes clear from this definition that the application of the scientific method plays a major role in science. The scientific method is a method of research with defined steps that include experiments and careful observation. The steps of the scientific method will be examined in detail later, but one of the most important aspects of this method is the testing of hypotheses by means of repeatable experiments. A hypothesis is a suggested explanation for an event, which can be tested. Although using the scientific method is inherent to science, it is inadequate in determining what science is. This is because it is relatively easy to apply the scientific method to disciplines such as physics and chemistry, but when it.
Answer: hypothesis

Question: Some compounds containing hydrogen are members of an important class of substances known as what?
Context: Binary Acids Some compounds containing hydrogen are members of an important class of substances known as acids. The chemistry of these compounds is explored in more detail in later chapters of this text, but for now, it will suffice to note that many acids release hydrogen ions, H+, when dissolved in water. To denote this distinct chemical property, a mixture of water with an acid is given a name derived from the compound’s name. If the compound is a binary acid (comprised of hydrogen and one other nonmetallic element): 1. The word “hydrogen” is changed to the prefix hydro2. The other nonmetallic element name is modified by adding the suffix -ic 3. The word “acid” is added as a second word.
Answer: acids

Question: Bacteria break down the remains of digested food through a processed called what?
Context: Behind each release of gas is an army of gut bacteria undergoing some crazy biochemistry. These bacteria break down the remains of digested food through fermentation, creating gas in the process. Learn what these bacteria have in common with beer brewing at http://youtu. be/R1kxajH629A?list=PLzMhsCgGKd1hoofiKuifwy6qRXZs7NG6a .
Answer: fermentation

Question: In science, coefficients are used to balance what kind of equations?
Context: Equations in chemistry must balance. There must be the same number of each type of atom in the products as there is in the reactants. Coefficients are used to balance chemical equations. They show how many atoms or molecules of a substance are involved in a reaction.
Answer: chemical

Question: What is the most abundant element in the universe?
Context: Isotopes of Hydrogen Hydrogen, the most abundant element in the universe, is the ultimate source of all other elements by the process of nuclear fusion. (For more information on nuclear fusion, seeChapter 20 "Nuclear Chemistry". ) Table 21.2 "The Isotopes of Hydrogen" compares the three isotopes of hydrogen, all of which contain one proton and one electron per atom. The most common isotope is protium (1H or H), followed by deuterium (2H or D), which has an additional neutron. The rarest isotope of hydrogen is tritium (3H or T), which is produced in the upper atmosphere by a nuclear reaction when cosmic rays strike nitrogen and other atoms; it is then washed into the oceans by rainfall. Tritium is radioactive, decaying to 3He with a half-life of only 12.32 years. Consequently, the atmosphere and oceans contain only a very low, steadystate level of tritium. The termhydrogen and the symbol H normally refer to the naturally occurring mixture of the three isotopes. Table 21.2 The Isotopes of Hydrogen.
Answer: hydrogen

Question: Science is the process of knowing about the natural universe through observation and this?
Context: Chemistry is a branch of science. Although science itself is difficult to define exactly, the following definition can serve as starting point. Science is the process of knowing about the natural universe through observation and experiment. Science is not the only process of knowing (e. , the ancient Greeks simply sat and thought), but it has evolved over more than 350 years into the best process that humanity has devised to date to learn about the universe around us. The process of science is usually stated as the scientific method, which is rather naïvely described as follows: (1) state a hypothesis, (2) test the hypothesis, and (3) refine the hypothesis. Actually, however, the process is not that simple. (For example, I don’t go into my lab every day and exclaim, “I am going to state a hypothesis today and spend the day testing it!”) The process is not that simple because science and scientists have a body of knowledge that has already been identified as coming from the highest level of understanding, and most scientists build from that body of knowledge. An educated guess about how the natural universe works is called a hypothesis. A scientist who is familiar with how part of the natural universe works—say, a chemist—is interested in furthering that knowledge. That person makes a reasonable guess—a hypothesis—that is designed to see if the universe works in a new way as well. Here’s an example of a hypothesis: “if I mix one part of hydrogen with one part of oxygen, I can make a substance that contains both elements. ” Most good hypotheses are grounded in previously understood knowledge and represent a testable extension of that knowledge. The scientist then devises ways to test if that guess is or is not correct. That is, the scientist plans experiments. Experiments are tests of the natural Saylor URL: http://www. saylor. org/books.
Answer: experiment

Question: What kind of energy is released when the thermochemical reaction of a campfire converts wood to carbon dioxide and water?
Context: A camp fire is an example of basic thermochemistry. The reaction is initiated by the application of heat from a match. The reaction converting wood to carbon dioxide and water (among other things) continues, releasing heat energy in the process. This heat energy can then be used to cook food, roast marshmallows, or just keep warm when it’s cold outside.
Answer: heat

Question: What do you call the metal elements listed below the periodic table?
Context: Transition metals include the elements that are placed below the periodic table. Those that follow lanthanum (La) are called lanthanides. They are all shiny, relatively reactive metals. Those that follow Actinium (Ac) are called actinides. They are all radioactive metals. This means they are unstable. They break down into different, more stable elements. You can read more about radioactive elements in the chapter Nuclear Chemistry . Many of the actinides do not occur in nature but are made in laboratories.
Answer: transition metals

Question: What word do get from the arabic al-qili, meaning “ashes of the saltwort plant from salt marshes”?
Context: The elements of group 1 are called the alkali metals. Alkali (from the Arabic al-qili, meaning “ashes of the saltwort plant from salt marshes”) was a general term for substances derived from wood ashes, all of which possessed a bitter taste and were able to neutralize acids. Although oxides of both group 1 and group 2 elements were obtained from wood ashes, the alkali metals had lower melting points. Potassium and sodium were first isolated in 1807 by the British chemist Sir Humphry Davy (1778–1829) by passing an electrical current through molten samples of potash (K2CO3) and soda ash (Na2CO3). The potassium burst into flames as soon as it was produced because it reacts readily with oxygen at the higher temperature. However, the group 1 elements, like the group 2 elements, become less reactive with air or water as their atomic number decreases. The heaviest element (francium) was not discovered until 1939. It is so radioactive that studying its chemistry is very difficult. The alkali metals have ns1 valence electron configurations and the lowest electronegativity of any group; hence they are often referred to as being electropositiveelements. As a result, they have a strong tendency to lose their single valence electron to form compounds in the +1 oxidation state, producing the EX monohalides and the E 2O oxides. Because they are so reactive, pure group 1 elements are powerful reducing agents that are used in lithium batteries and cardiac pacemakers. Sodium salts such as common table salt (NaCl), baking soda (NaHCO3), soda ash (Na2CO3),.
Answer: alkali

Question: What elements tend to conduct well?
Context: While many elements differ dramatically in their chemical and physical properties, some elements have similar properties. We can identify sets of elements that exhibit common behaviors. For example, many elements conduct heat and electricity well, whereas others are poor conductors. These properties can be used to sort the elements into three classes: metals (elements that conduct well), nonmetals (elements that conduct poorly), and metalloids (elements that have properties of both metals and nonmetals). The periodic table is a table of elements that places elements with similar properties close together (Figure 1.22). You will learn more about the periodic table as you continue your study of chemistry.
Answer: metals

Question: Strong, stable bonds between carbon atoms produce complex molecules containing chains, branches, and rings; the chemistry of these compounds is called what?
Context: Summary 20.1 Hydrocarbons Strong, stable bonds between carbon atoms produce complex molecules containing chains, branches, and rings. The chemistry of these compounds is called organic chemistry. Hydrocarbons are organic compounds composed of only carbon and hydrogen. The alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons—that is, hydrocarbons that contain only single bonds. Alkenes contain one or more carbon-carbon double bonds. Alkynes contain one or more carbon-carbon triple bonds. Aromatic hydrocarbons contain ring structures with delocalized π electron systems.
Answer: organic chemistry

Question: Biotechnology uses what to solve problems?
Context: Biotechnology is technology based on biological applications. These applications are increasingly used in medicine, agriculture and food science. Biotechnology combines many features of biology, including genetics, molecular biology, biochemistry, embryology, and cell biology. Many aspects of biotechnology center around DNA and its applications, otherwise known as DNA technology. We could devote a whole textbook to current applications of biotechnology, however, we will focus on the applications towards medicine and agriculture, and the extension into the forensic sciences. First, though, we need to understand DNA technology.
Answer: biology

Question: In the past, biologists grouped living organisms into five kingdoms: animals, plants, fungi, protists, and what?
Context: Carl Woese and the Phylogenetic Tree In the past, biologists grouped living organisms into five kingdoms: animals, plants, fungi, protists, and bacteria. The organizational scheme was based mainly on physical features, as opposed to physiology, biochemistry, or molecular biology, all of which are used by modern systematics. The pioneering work of American microbiologist Carl Woese in the early 1970s has shown, however, that life on Earth has evolved along three lineages, now called domains—Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya. The first two are prokaryotic cells with microbes that lack membrane-enclosed nuclei and organelles. The third domain contains the eukaryotes and includes unicellular microorganisms together with the four original kingdoms (excluding bacteria). Woese defined Archaea as a new domain, and this resulted in a new taxonomic tree (Figure 1.17). Many organisms belonging to the Archaea domain live under extreme conditions and are called extremophiles. To construct his tree, Woese used genetic relationships rather than similarities based on morphology (shape). Woese’s tree was constructed from comparative sequencing of the genes that are universally distributed, present in every organism, and conserved (meaning that these genes have remained essentially unchanged throughout evolution). Woese’s approach was revolutionary because comparisons of physical features are insufficient to differentiate between the prokaryotes that appear fairly similar in spite of their tremendous biochemical diversity and genetic variability (Figure 1.18). The comparison of homologous DNA and RNA sequences provided Woese with a sensitive device that revealed the extensive variability of prokaryotes, and which justified the separation of the prokaryotes into two domains: bacteria and archaea.
Answer: bacteria

Question: An atom is the smallest unit of what that maintains the identity of the latter?
Context: The smallest piece of an element that maintains the identity of that element is called an atom. Individual atoms are extremely small. It would take about fifty million atoms in a row to make a line that is 1 cm long. The period at the end of a printed sentence has several million atoms in it. Atoms are so small that it is difficult to believe that all matter is made from atoms—but it is. The concept that atoms play a fundamental role in chemistry is formalized by the modern atomic theory, first stated by John Dalton, an English scientist, in 1808. It consists of three parts: 1.
Answer: element

