Question: What process refers to a separation of charge within an atom or molecule?
Context: material, and is intimately related to the polarizability of the material. Things Great and Small The Submicroscopic Origin of Polarization Polarization is a separation of charge within an atom or molecule. As has been noted, the planetary model of the atom pictures it as having a positive nucleus orbited by negative electrons, analogous to the planets orbiting the Sun. Although this model is not completely accurate, it is very helpful in explaining a vast range of phenomena and will be refined elsewhere, such as in Atomic Physics. The submicroscopic origin of polarization can be modeled as shown in Figure 19.18.
Answer: polarization

Question: In physics, what is defined as the average kinetic energy of the particles of matter?
Context: No doubt you already have a good idea of what temperature is. You might say that it’s how warm or cool something feels. In physics, temperature is defined as the average kinetic energy of the particles of matter. When particles of matter move more quickly, they have more kinetic energy, so their temperature is higher. With a higher temperature, matter feels warmer. When particles move more slowly, they have less kinetic energy on average, so their temperature is lower. With a lower temperature, matter feels cooler.
Answer: temperature

Question: In physics, _______ is defined as the average kinetic energy of the particles in an object?
Context: No doubt you already have a good idea of what temperature is. You might define it as how hot or cold something feels. In physics, temperature is defined as the average kinetic energy of the particles in an object. When particles move more quickly, temperature is higher and an object feels warmer. When particles move more slowly, temperature is lower and an object feels cooler.
Answer: temperature

Question: What is the branch of science that studies the physical world?
Context: What is physics ? Physics is the branch of science that studies the physical world, including objects as small as subatomic particles and as large as galaxies. It studies the nature of matter and energy and how they interact. Physicists are inquisitive people who want to know the causes of what they see. How does the moon move? Why does the moon move? Why do the stars shine? Why do your hands get warm when you rub them together? Physicists, like all scientists, hope to find explanations that describe more than one phenomenon and offer a better understanding of how the universe works.
Answer: physics

Question: When energy is captured or transformed, it inevitably degrades and becomes what less useful form of energy?
Context: Physics also tells us that, although energy can be captured or transformed, it inevitably degrades, becoming heat, a less useful form of energy. This is why organisms require a constant input of energy; the work they must do uses up the energy they take in. Energy, unlike materials, cannot be recycled. The story of life is a story of energy flow – its capture, transformation, use for work, and loss as heat.
Answer: heat

Question: In physics, work means the use of what to move an object?
Context: Work is defined differently in physics than in everyday language. In physics, work means the use of force to move an object. The teens who are playing basketball in the picture above are using force to move their bodies and the basketball, so they are doing work. The teen who is studying isn’t moving anything, so she isn’t doing work. Not all force that is used to move an object does work. For work to be done, the force must be applied in the same direction that the object moves. If a force is applied in a different direction than the object moves, no work is done. The Figure below illustrates this point.
Answer: force

Question: The lack of annihilation radiation coming to us from space proves that the universe is dominated by what?
Context: Making Connections: Cosmology and Particle Physics There are many connections of cosmology—by definition involving physics on the largest scale—with particle physics—by definition physics on the smallest scale. Among these are the dominance of matter over antimatter, the nearly perfect uniformity of the cosmic microwave background, and the mere existence of galaxies. Matter versus antimatter We know from direct observation that antimatter is rare. The Earth and the solar system are nearly pure matter. Space probes and cosmic rays give direct evidence—the landing of the Viking probes on Mars would have been spectacular explosions of mutual annihilation energy if Mars were antimatter. We also know that most of the universe is dominated by matter. This is proven by the lack of annihilation radiation coming to us from space, particularly the relative absence of 0.511-MeV γ rays created by the mutual annihilation of electrons and positrons. It seemed possible that there could be entire solar systems or galaxies made of antimatter in perfect symmetry with our matter-dominated systems. But the interactions between stars and galaxies would sometimes bring matter and antimatter together in large amounts. The annihilation + radiation they would produce is simply not observed. Antimatter in nature is created in particle collisions and in β decays, but only in small amounts that quickly annihilate, leaving almost pure matter surviving. Particle physics seems symmetric in matter and antimatter. Why isn’t the cosmos? The answer is that particle physics is not quite perfectly symmetric in this regard. The decay of one of the neutral K -mesons, for example, preferentially creates more matter than antimatter. This is caused by a fundamental small asymmetry in the basic forces. This small asymmetry produced slightly.
Answer: matter

Question: The scientific method is a method of research with defined steps that include experiments and careful what?
Context: that have taken place during this time. There are however, areas of knowledge and human experience that the methods of science cannot be applied to. These include such things as answering purely moral questions, aesthetic questions, or what can be generally categorized as spiritual questions. Science has cannot investigate these areas because they are outside the realm of material phenomena, the phenomena of matter and energy, and cannot be observed and measured. The scientific method is a method of research with defined steps that include experiments and careful observation. The steps of the scientific method will be examined in detail later, but one of the most important aspects of this method is the testing of hypotheses. A hypothesis is a suggested explanation for an event, which can be tested. Hypotheses, or tentative explanations, are generally produced within the context of a scientific theory. A scientific theory is a generally accepted, thoroughly tested and confirmed explanation for a set of observations or phenomena. Scientific theory is the foundation of scientific knowledge. In addition, in many scientific disciplines (less so in biology) there are scientific laws, often expressed in mathematical formulas, which describe how elements of nature will behave under certain specific conditions. There is not an evolution of hypotheses through theories to laws as if they represented some increase in certainty about the world. Hypotheses are the day-to-day material that scientists work with and they are developed within the context of theories. Laws are concise descriptions of parts of the world that are amenable to formulaic or mathematical description. Natural Sciences What would you expect to see in a museum of natural sciences? Frogs? Plants? Dinosaur skeletons? Exhibits about how the brain functions? A planetarium? Gems and minerals? Or maybe all of the above? Science includes such diverse fields as astronomy, biology, computer sciences, geology, logic, physics, chemistry, and mathematics (Figure 1.16). However, those fields of science related to the physical world and its phenomena and processes are considered natural sciences. Thus, a museum of natural sciences might contain any of the items listed above.
Answer: observation

Question: What field of study is called the language of science?
Context: The field of science has gotten so big that it is common to separate it into more specific fields. First, there is mathematics, the language of science. All scientific fields use mathematics to express themselves—some more than others. Physics and astronomy are scientific fields concerned with the fundamental interactions between matter and energy. Chemistry, as defined previously, is the study of the interactions of matter with other matter and with energy. Biology is the study of living organisms, while geology is the study of the earth. Other sciences can be named as well. Understand that these fields are not always completely separate; the boundaries between scientific fields are not always readily apparent. Therefore, a scientist may be labeled a biochemist if he or she studies the chemistry of biological organisms. Finally, understand that science can be either qualitative or quantitative. Qualitative implies a description of the quality of an object. For example, physical properties are generally qualitative descriptions: sulfur is yellow, your math book is heavy, or that statue is pretty. A quantitative description represents the specific amount of something; it means knowing how much of something is present, usually by counting or measuring it. As such, some quantitative descriptions would include 25 students in a class, 650 pages in a book, or a velocity of 66 miles per hour. Quantitative expressions are very important in science; they are also very important in chemistry.
Answer: mathematics

Question: Is the most basic what is the most basic of the sciences, concerning itself with energy, matter, space and time, and their interactions?
Context: Section Summary 1.1 Physics: An Introduction • Science seeks to discover and describe the underlying order and simplicity in nature. • Physics is the most basic of the sciences, concerning itself with energy, matter, space and time, and their interactions. • Scientific laws and theories express the general truths of nature and the body of knowledge they encompass. These laws of nature are rules that all natural processes appear to follow.
Answer: physics

Question: In physics, what do you call devices that make work easier?
Context: In this chapter, you saw how pressure and buoyancy of fluids can be used to make work easier — from raising a car on a lift to floating a ship on the ocean. Devices that make work easier are called machines in physics.
Answer: machines

Question: Chemistry and physics are fields in what type of science?
Context: The space shuttle program has been very successful. Over 100 mission have been flown. Space shuttle missions have made many scientific discoveries. Crews have launched many satellites. There have been other great achievements in space. However, the program has also had two tragic disasters.
Answer: physical

Question: Diamond is extremely hard because of the strong bonding between ______ in all directions?
Context: Figure 10.43 Diamond is extremely hard because of the strong bonding between carbon atoms in all directions. Graphite (in pencil lead) rubs off onto paper due to the weak attractions between the carbon layers. An image of a graphite surface shows the distance between the centers of adjacent carbon atoms. (credit left photo: modification of work by Steve Jurvetson; credit middle photo: modification of work by United States Geological Survey) You may be less familiar with a recently discovered form of carbon: graphene. Graphene was first isolated in 2004 by using tape to peel off thinner and thinner layers from graphite. It is essentially a single sheet (one atom thick) of graphite. Graphene, illustrated in Figure 10.44, is not only strong and lightweight, but it is also an excellent conductor of electricity and heat. These properties may prove very useful in a wide range of applications, such as vastly improved computer chips and circuits, better batteries and solar cells, and stronger and lighter structural materials. The 2010 Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov for their pioneering work with graphene.
Answer: carbon atoms

Question: The intensity or rate of radiation emission _________  with temperature?
Context: Figure 29.3 Graphs of blackbody radiation (from an ideal radiator) at three different radiator temperatures. The intensity or rate of radiation emission increases dramatically with temperature, and the peak of the spectrum shifts toward the visible and ultraviolet parts of the spectrum. The shape of the spectrum cannot be described with classical physics.
Answer: increases

Question: Named after the dutch physicist, the van de graaff is a type of what device used for nuclear research?
Context: Early Accelerators An early accelerator is a relatively simple, large-scale version of the electron gun. The Van de Graaff (named after the Dutch physicist), which you have likely seen in physics demonstrations, is a small version of the ones used for nuclear research since their invention for that purpose in 1932. For more, see Figure 33.7. These machines are electrostatic, creating potentials as great as 50 MV, and are used to accelerate a variety of nuclei for a range of experiments. Energies produced by Van de Graaffs are insufficient to produce new particles, but they have been instrumental in exploring several aspects of the nucleus. Another, equally famous, early accelerator is the cyclotron, invented in 1930 by the American physicist, E. Lawrence (1901–1958). For a visual representation with more detail, see Figure 33.8. Cyclotrons use fixed-frequency alternating electric fields to accelerate particles. The particles spiral outward in a magnetic field, making increasingly larger radius orbits during acceleration. This clever arrangement allows the successive addition of electric potential energy and so greater particle energies are possible than in a Van de Graaff. Lawrence was involved in many early discoveries and in the promotion of physics programs in American.
Answer: accelerator

Question: In physics, resistance is opposition to the flow of what?
Context: In physics, resistance is opposition to the flow of electric charges in an electric current as it travels through matter. The SI unit for resistance is the ohm. Resistance occurs because moving electrons in current bump into atoms of matter. Resistance reduces the amount of electrical energy that is transferred through matter. That’s because some of the electrical energy is absorbed by the atoms and changed to other forms of energy, such as heat. You can see an animation of resistance at the level of atoms and electrons at this URL: http://www. physics. org/explorelink. asp?id=1738&q=electricalresistance&currentpage=1&age=0&knowledge=0&item=3.
Answer: electrical charges

Question: The german physicist max planck (1858–1947) used the idea that atoms and molecules in a body act like oscillators to absorb and emit this?
Context: Where is the quantization of energy observed? Let us begin by considering the emission and absorption of electromagnetic (EM) radiation. The EM spectrum radiated by a hot solid is linked directly to the solid’s temperature. (See Figure 29.3. ) An ideal radiator is one that has an emissivity of 1 at all wavelengths and, thus, is jet black. Ideal radiators are therefore called blackbodies, and their EM radiation is called blackbody radiation. It was discussed that the total intensity of the radiation varies as T 4 , the fourth power of the absolute temperature of the body, and that the peak of the spectrum shifts to shorter wavelengths at higher temperatures. All of this seems quite continuous, but it was the curve of the spectrum of intensity versus wavelength that gave a clue that the energies of the atoms in the solid are quantized. In fact, providing a theoretical explanation for the experimentally measured shape of the spectrum was a mystery at the turn of the century. When this “ultraviolet catastrophe” was eventually solved, the answers led to new technologies such as computers and the sophisticated imaging techniques described in earlier chapters. Once again, physics as an enabling science changed the way we live. The German physicist Max Planck (1858–1947) used the idea that atoms and molecules in a body act like oscillators to absorb and emit radiation. The energies of the oscillating atoms and molecules had to be quantized to correctly describe the shape of the blackbody spectrum. Planck deduced that the energy of an oscillator having a frequency f is given by.
Answer: radiation

Question: What do vectors possess that scalars do not?
Context: In physics, a quantity, such as mass, length, or speed that is completely specified by its magnitude and has no direction is called a scalar . A vector , on the other hand, is a quantity possessing both magnitude and direction. A vector quantity is typically represented by an arrow-tipped line segment. The length of the line, drawn to scale, represents the magnitude of the quantity. The direction of the arrow indicates the direction of the vector. Not only can vectors be represented graphically, but they can also be added graphically.
Answer: magnitude and direction

Question: What model of the atom features an electron orbiting a nucleus, forming a closed-current loop and producing a magnetic field with a north pole and a south pole?.
Context: Figure 22.13 (a) In the planetary model of the atom, an electron orbits a nucleus, forming a closed-current loop and producing a magnetic field with a north pole and a south pole. (b) Electrons have spin and can be crudely pictured as rotating charge, forming a current that produces a magnetic field with a north pole and a south pole. Neither the planetary model nor the image of a spinning electron is completely consistent with modern physics. However, they do provide a useful way of understanding phenomena.
Answer: planetary model

Question: The electrons in a water molecule are more concentrated around the more highly charged oxygen nucleus than around this?
Context: We will find in Atomic Physics that the orbits of electrons are more properly viewed as electron clouds with the density of the cloud related to the probability of finding an electron in that location (as opposed to the definite locations and paths of planets in their orbits around the Sun). This cloud is shifted by the Coulomb force so that the atom on average has a separation of charge. Although the atom remains neutral, it can now be the source of a Coulomb force, since a charge brought near the atom will be closer to one type of charge than the other. Some molecules, such as those of water, have an inherent separation of charge and are thus called polar molecules. Figure ⎛ ⎞ 19.19 illustrates the separation of charge in a water molecule, which has two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom ⎝H 2 O⎠ . The water molecule is not symmetric—the hydrogen atoms are repelled to one side, giving the molecule a boomerang shape. The electrons in a water molecule are more concentrated around the more highly charged oxygen nucleus than around the hydrogen nuclei. This makes the oxygen end of the molecule slightly negative and leaves the hydrogen ends slightly positive. The inherent separation of charge in polar molecules makes it easier to align them with external fields and charges. Polar molecules therefore exhibit greater polarization effects and have greater dielectric constants. Those who study chemistry will find that the polar nature of water has many effects. For example, water molecules gather ions much more effectively because they have an electric field and a separation of charge to attract charges of both signs. Also, as brought out in the previous chapter, polar water provides a shield or screening of the electric fields in the highly charged molecules of interest in biological systems.
Answer: hydrogen nuclei

Question: In physics, the number of waves that pass a fixed point in a given amount time is referred to as what ?
Context: Wave speed is related to both wavelength and wave frequency. Wavelength is the distance between two corresponding points on adjacent waves. Wave frequency is the number of waves that pass a fixed point in a given amount of time. This equation shows how the three factors are related:.
Answer: wave frequency

Question: What is the study of energy and how it interacts with matter?
Context: Physics is the study of energy and how it interacts with matter. Important concepts in physics include motion, forces such as magnetism and gravity, and different forms of energy. Physics concepts can answer all the questions on the right page of the notebook in Figure above .
Answer: physics

Question: What are waves that pass a fixed point in a given amount of time called?
Context: The number of waves that pass a fixed point in a given amount of time is wave frequency . Wave frequency can be measured by counting the number of crests (high points) of waves that pass the fixed point in 1 second or some other time period. The higher the number is, the greater the frequency of the waves. The SI unit for wave frequency is the hertz (Hz) , where 1 hertz equals 1 wave passing a fixed point in 1 second. The Figure below shows high-frequency and low-frequency transverse waves. You can simulate transverse waves with different frequencies at these URLs: http://phet. colorado. edu/en/simulation/wave-on-a-string and http://zonalandeducation. com/mstm/physics/waves/partsOfAWave/waveParts. htm.
Answer: wave frequency

Question: Which procedure helps modern nuclear physics convert lead into gold?
Context: The alchemists were never successful in changing lead into gold. But modern nuclear physics can accomplish this task. Lead is subjected to nuclear bombardment in a particle accelerator. A small amount of gold can be obtained by this process. However, the cost of the procedure is far more than the amount of gold obtained. So the dream of the alchemists has never (and will never) come true.
Answer: nuclear bombardment

Question: What french chemist discovered the radioactive elements polonium and radium?
Context: Another scientist, who worked with Becquerel, actually came up with the term radioactivity . The other scientist was the French chemist Marie Curie. She went on to discover the radioactive elements polonium and radium. She won two Nobel Prizes for her discoveries. You can learn more about Marie Curie at this URL: http://nobelprize. org/nobel_prizes/physics/laureates/1903/marie-curie-bio. html.
Answer: marie curie

Question: What are the two types of charges?
Context: Conservation of charge is the fourth of the five conservation laws in physics. There are two charges, positive and negative, and the conservation of electric charge indicates that the total charge in the universe remains the same. In any closed system charge can be transferred from one body to another or can move within the system but the total electric charge remains constant.
Answer: positive and negative

Question: What is defined in physics as the amount of force pushing against a given area?
Context: Particles of gas are constantly moving in all directions at random. As a result, they are always bumping into each other and other things. This is modeled in the Figure below . The force of the particles against things they bump into creates pressure. Pressure is defined in physics as the amount of force pushing against a given area. How much pressure a gas exerts depends on the number of gas particles in a given space and how fast they are moving. The more gas particles there are and the faster they are moving, the greater the pressure they create. To learn more about gas pressure and how to measure it, go to this URL: http://www. wisc-online. com/objects/ViewObject. aspx?ID=GCH5004 .
Answer: pressure

Question: Most motions in nature follow ________ rather than straight lines?
Context: Introduction to Two-Dimensional Kinematics The arc of a basketball, the orbit of a satellite, a bicycle rounding a curve, a swimmer diving into a pool, blood gushing out of a wound, and a puppy chasing its tail are but a few examples of motions along curved paths. In fact, most motions in nature follow curved paths rather than straight lines. Motion along a curved path on a flat surface or a plane (such as that of a ball on a pool table or a skater on an ice rink) is two-dimensional, and thus described by two-dimensional kinematics. Motion not confined to a plane, such as a car following a winding mountain road, is described by three-dimensional kinematics. Both two- and threedimensional kinematics are simple extensions of the one-dimensional kinematics developed for straight-line motion in the previous chapter. This simple extension will allow us to apply physics to many more situations, and it will also yield unexpected insights about nature.
Answer: curved paths

Question: What method plays a role in determining the approximate age of the earth and makes use of uranium?
Context: Things Great and Small Nuclear Decay Helps Explain Earth’s Hot Interior A puzzle created by radioactive dating of rocks is resolved by radioactive heating of Earth’s interior. This intriguing story is another example of how small-scale physics can explain large-scale phenomena. Radioactive dating plays a role in determining the approximate age of the Earth. The oldest rocks on Earth solidified about 3.5×10 9 years ago—a number determined by uranium-238 dating. These rocks could only have solidified once the surface of the Earth had cooled sufficiently. The temperature of the Earth at formation can be estimated based on gravitational potential energy of the assemblage of pieces being converted to thermal energy. Using heat transfer concepts discussed in Thermodynamics it is then possible to calculate how long it would take for the surface to cool to rock9 9 formation temperatures. The result is about 10 years. The first rocks formed have been solid for 3.5×10 years, so that 9 the age of the Earth is approximately 4.5×10 years. There is a large body of other types of evidence (both Earth-bound and solar system characteristics are used) that supports this age. The puzzle is that, given its age and initial temperature, the center of the Earth should be much cooler than it is today (see Figure 31.26).
Answer: radioactive dating

Question: The physical sciences can be divided into physics and what other science?
Context: Physical science, in turn, can be divided into chemistry and physics. Chemistry is the study of matter and energy at the scale of atoms and molecules. For example, the synthetic fibers in the swimmer’s suit were created in labs by chemists. Physics is the study of matter and energy at all scales—from the tiniest particles of matter to the entire universe. Knowledge of several important physics concepts—such as motion and forces—contributed to the design of the swimmer’s suit.
Answer: chemistry

Question: What branch of science is the study of matter and energy?
Context: Physical science is the study of matter and energy. It includes the sciences of chemistry and physics. Most careers in physical science require a 4-year college degree in one of these fields. Some careers require more advanced education as well. For example, an astronaut might have a master’s degree or even a doctoral degree.
Answer: physical science

Question: The laws of what field of science apply to galaxies and atoms, an indication of the underlying unity in the universe?
Context: Figure 1.1 Galaxies are as immense as atoms are small. Yet the same laws of physics describe both, and all the rest of nature—an indication of the underlying unity in the universe. The laws of physics are surprisingly few in number, implying an underlying simplicity to nature’s apparent complexity. (credit: NASA, JPL-Caltech, P. Barmby, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics).
Answer: physics

Question: An electric stove changes electric current to what form of energy?
Context: Electric devices, such as lights and household appliances, change electric current to other forms of energy. For example, an electric stove changes electric current to thermal energy. Other common devices, such as mobile phones and computers, use electric current for another purpose: to encode information. A message encoded this way is called an electronic signal , and the use of electric current for this purpose is called electronics . For an overview of electronics and electronic signals, read the short article at this URL: http://www. bbc. co. uk/scotland/learning/bitesize/standard/physics/electronics/overview_rev1. shtml .
Answer: thermal

Question: Which law describes the angle at which the reflected rays leave the surface is equal to the angle at which the incident rays strike the surface?
Context: One thing is true of both regular and diffuse reflection. The angle at which the reflected rays leave the surface is equal to the angle at which the incident rays strike the surface. This is known as the law of reflection . The law is illustrated in the Figure below and also in this animation: http://www. physicsclassroom. com/mmedia/optics/lr. cfm.
Answer: reflection

Question: Vertebrates have tissues which are organized into organs which in turn are organized into  what?
Context: 24.4 Subphylum Vertebrata (Vertebra from Latin vertere, to turn). Characterized by separate bones or cartilage blocks firmly joined as a backbone. The backbone supports and protects a dorsal nerve cord. Vertebrates have tissues which are organized into organs which in turn are organized into organ systems. All vertebrates share the following characteristics: - segmentation - a true coelom - bilateral symmetry - cephalization - a backbone - a bony skull - a closed circulatory system - chambered heart - two pairs of jointed appendages - tissues organized into organs Vertebrate Organ Systems: - Nervous System - Circulatory System - Digestive System Respiratory System - Reproductive System - Excretory System • Vertebral column: Not present in higher vertebrate adults. (In humans, the gel-like, spongy core of the vertebral column is the only remainder. Ruptured or herniated disc is an injury to this. ) • Cranium: Composite structure of bone/cartilage. Two functions: 1. Supports sensory organs of head and 2. Encloses or partially encloses the brain. What evolutionary relationship could we imagine between sessile echinoderms and the higher chordate animals? Paedomorphic (child-form) hypothesis: basically, evolution of sexual reproduction in what had previously been a larval life stage, or the retention of at least one juvenile characteristic into the adult (adult = sexually reproducing) stage. Some scientists believe that this occurred in a proto-chordate animal lineage. Maybe chordates (and vertebrates) arose from sessile (attached) ancestors. Selection in these proto-chordates maybe began to favor more time in the larval stage, as feeding was more successful or mortality lower in this stage. As larvae got bigger physics shows that the cilia become less efficient for locomotion, favoring the undulating motion allowed by a notochord. Is this hypothesis crazy? A similar example of this today is Epemeroptera, the mayfly, which has almost abandoned its adult stage. Its one-year lifespan is mostly larval with just a brief day of reproduce-and-die as an adult, which doesn’t even have usable mouthparts. Tunicate (sea squirt) larva has all four chordate characteristics, although adult sessile (“attached”).
Answer: organ systems

Question: What is the term for a state of matter that yields to sideways or shearing forces?
Context: Section Summary 11.1 What Is a Fluid? • A fluid is a state of matter that yields to sideways or shearing forces. Liquids and gases are both fluids. Fluid statics is the physics of stationary fluids.
Answer: fluid

Question: What type of force exists between two touching surfaces?
Context: Friction is the force that resists motion. In most beginning physics classes, friction is ignored. Concepts can be understood and calculations made assuming friction to be nonexistent. Whenever physics intersects with the real world, however, friction must be taken into account. Friction exists between two touching surfaces because even the smoothest looking surface is quite rough on a microscopic scale.
Answer: friction

Question: If the frequency of the electromagnetic wave is the same as the natural frequencies of the system, the transfer of what is much more efficient?
Context: 24.4 Energy in Electromagnetic Waves Anyone who has used a microwave oven knows there is energy in electromagnetic waves. Sometimes this energy is obvious, such as in the warmth of the summer sun. Other times it is subtle, such as the unfelt energy of gamma rays, which can destroy living cells. Electromagnetic waves can bring energy into a system by virtue of their electric and magnetic fields. These fields can exert forces and move charges in the system and, thus, do work on them. If the frequency of the electromagnetic wave is the same as the natural frequencies of the system (such as microwaves at the resonant frequency of water molecules), the transfer of energy is much more efficient. Connections: Waves and Particles The behavior of electromagnetic radiation clearly exhibits wave characteristics. But we shall find in later modules that at high frequencies, electromagnetic radiation also exhibits particle characteristics. These particle characteristics will be used to explain more of the properties of the electromagnetic spectrum and to introduce the formal study of modern physics. Another startling discovery of modern physics is that particles, such as electrons and protons, exhibit wave characteristics. This simultaneous sharing of wave and particle properties for all submicroscopic entities is one of the great symmetries in nature.
Answer: energy

Question: What is the study of matter and energy referred to as?
Context: Physical science is the study of matter and energy. It includes chemistry, which focuses on matter, and physics, which focuses on energy.
Answer: physical science

Question: What type of science is the study of matter and energy and includes chemistry and physics?
Context: Physical science is the study of matter and energy. It includes chemistry and physics.
Answer: physical science

Question: What is the si unit for electric current?
Context: Electric current is a continuous flow of electric charges (electrons). Current is measured as the amount of charge that flows past a given point in a certain amount of time. The SI unit for electric current is the ampere (A), or amp. Electric current may flow in just one direction (direct current), or it may keep reversing direction (alternating current). You can watch an animation of electric current at this URL: http://www. schoolphysics. co. uk/animations/Electric_current/index. html.
Answer: ampere

Question: Practical limits of van de graaff generators arise because the large electric fields polarize and eventually do what to surrounding materials?
Context: The Van de Graaff Generator Van de Graaff generators (or Van de Graaffs) are not only spectacular devices used to demonstrate high voltage due to static electricity—they are also used for serious research. The first was built by Robert Van de Graaff in 1931 (based on original suggestions by Lord Kelvin) for use in nuclear physics research. Figure 18.38 shows a schematic of a large research version. Van de Graaffs utilize both smooth and pointed surfaces, and conductors and insulators to generate large static charges and, hence, large voltages. A very large excess charge can be deposited on the sphere, because it moves quickly to the outer surface. Practical limits arise because the large electric fields polarize and eventually ionize surrounding materials, creating free charges that neutralize excess charge or allow it to escape. Nevertheless, voltages of 15 million volts are well within practical limits.
Answer: ionize

Question: What important aspect of the scientific method is a suggested explanation for an event, which can be tested?
Context: The Process of Science Biology is a science, but what exactly is science? What does the study of biology share with other scientific disciplines? Science (from the Latin scientia, meaning “knowledge”) can be defined as knowledge that covers general truths or the operation of general laws, especially when acquired and tested by the scientific method. It becomes clear from this definition that the application of the scientific method plays a major role in science. The scientific method is a method of research with defined steps that include experiments and careful observation. The steps of the scientific method will be examined in detail later, but one of the most important aspects of this method is the testing of hypotheses by means of repeatable experiments. A hypothesis is a suggested explanation for an event, which can be tested. Although using the scientific method is inherent to science, it is inadequate in determining what science is. This is because it is relatively easy to apply the scientific method to disciplines such as physics and chemistry, but when it.
Answer: hypothesis

Question: The epochs of the universe are known back to very shortly after what 'explosive' event?
Context: H0 = 20km/s ⋅ Mly. • Explanations of the large-scale characteristics of the universe are intimately tied to particle physics. • The dominance of matter over antimatter and the smoothness of the CMBR are two characteristics that are tied to particle physics. • The epochs of the universe are known back to very shortly after the Big Bang, based on known laws of physics. • The earliest epochs are tied to the unification of forces, with the electroweak epoch being partially understood, the GUT epoch being speculative, and the TOE epoch being highly speculative since it involves an unknown single superforce. • The transition from GUT to electroweak is called spontaneous symmetry breaking. It released energy that caused the inflationary scenario, which in turn explains the smoothness of the CMBR.
Answer: big bang

Question: What is created when the wave source moves faster than the wave propagation speed?
Context: Sonic booms are one example of a broader phenomenon called bow wakes. A bow wake, such as the one in Figure 17.19, is created when the wave source moves faster than the wave propagation speed. Water waves spread out in circles from the point where created, and the bow wake is the familiar V-shaped wake trailing the source. A more exotic bow wake is created when a subatomic particle travels through a medium faster than the speed of light travels in that medium. (In a vacuum, the maximum 8 speed of light will be c = 3.00×10 m/s ; in the medium of water, the speed of light is closer to 0.75c . If the particle creates light in its passage, that light spreads on a cone with an angle indicative of the speed of the particle, as illustrated in Figure 17.20. Such a bow wake is called Cerenkov radiation and is commonly observed in particle physics.
Answer: bow wake

Question: Physical science can be defined as the study of matter and what?
Context: Physical science can be defined as the study of matter and energy. Matter refers to all the "stuff" that exists in the universe. It includes everything you can see and many things that you cannot see, including the air around you. Energy is what gives matter the ability to move and change. Energy can take many forms, such as electricity, heat, and light. Physical science can be divided into chemistry and physics. Chemistry focuses on matter and energy at the scale of atoms and molecules. Physics focuses on matter and energy at all scales, from atoms to outer space.
Answer: energy

Question: In classical physics, momentum is a simple product of mass and this?
Context: In classical physics, momentum is a simple product of mass and velocity. However, we saw in the last section that when special relativity is taken into account, massive objects have a speed limit. What effect do you think mass and velocity have on the momentum of objects moving at relativistic speeds? Momentum is one of the most important concepts in physics. The broadest form of Newton’s second law is stated in terms of momentum. Momentum is conserved whenever the net external force on a system is zero. This makes momentum conservation a fundamental tool for analyzing collisions. All of Work, Energy, and Energy Resources is devoted to momentum, and momentum has been important for many other topics as well, particularly where collisions were involved. We will see that momentum has the same importance in modern physics. Relativistic momentum is conserved, and much of what we know about subatomic structure comes from the analysis of collisions of accelerator-produced relativistic particles. The first postulate of relativity states that the laws of physics are the same in all inertial frames. Does the law of conservation of momentum survive this requirement at high velocities? The answer is yes, provided that the momentum is defined as follows. Relativistic Momentum Relativistic momentum.
Answer: velocity

Question: What conveys signals received by the eye to the brain?
Context: 26.1 Physics of the Eye The eye is perhaps the most interesting of all optical instruments. The eye is remarkable in how it forms images and in the richness of detail and color it can detect. However, our eyes commonly need some correction, to reach what is called “normal” vision, but should be called ideal rather than normal. Image formation by our eyes and common vision correction are easy to analyze with the optics discussed in Geometric Optics. Figure 26.2 shows the basic anatomy of the eye. The cornea and lens form a system that, to a good approximation, acts as a single thin lens. For clear vision, a real image must be projected onto the light-sensitive retina, which lies at a fixed distance from the lens. The lens of the eye adjusts its power to produce an image on the retina for objects at different distances. The center of the image falls on the fovea, which has the greatest density of light receptors and the greatest acuity (sharpness) in the visual field. The variable opening (or pupil) of the eye along with chemical adaptation allows the eye to detect light intensities from the 10 lowest observable to 10 times greater (without damage). This is an incredible range of detection. Our eyes perform a vast number of functions, such as sense direction, movement, sophisticated colors, and distance. Processing of visual nerve impulses begins with interconnections in the retina and continues in the brain. The optic nerve conveys signals received by the eye to the brain.
Answer: optic nerve

Question: What branch of physics deals with the smallest units of elements and compounds?
Context: Introduction to Particle Physics Following ideas remarkably similar to those of the ancient Greeks, we continue to look for smaller and smaller structures in nature, hoping ultimately to find and understand the most fundamental building blocks that exist. Atomic physics deals with the smallest units of elements and compounds. In its study, we have found a relatively small number of atoms with systematic properties that explained a tremendous range of phenomena. Nuclear physics is concerned with the nuclei of atoms and their substructures. Here, a smaller number of components—the proton and neutron—make up all nuclei. Exploring the systematic behavior of their interactions has revealed even more about matter, forces, and energy. Particle physics deals with the substructures of atoms and nuclei and is particularly aimed at finding those truly fundamental particles that have no further substructure. Just as in atomic and nuclear physics, we have found a complex array of particles and properties with systematic characteristics analogous to the periodic table and the chart of nuclides. An underlying structure is apparent, and there is some reason to think that we are finding particles that have no substructure. Of course, we have been in similar situations before. For example, atoms were once thought to be the ultimate substructure. Perhaps we will find deeper and deeper structures and never come to an ultimate substructure. We may never really know, as indicated in Figure 33.2.
Answer: atomic

Question: The pull of gravity is expressed as a force of what?
Context: One force acting on you—and all the other objects on Earth—is gravity. Look at the physics book in the Figure below . Gravity pulls the book downward with a force of 20 Newtons. Why doesn’t the book fall to the ground? The table pushes upward on the book with the same amount of force. The combined force, or net force , acting on the book is 0 Newtons. That’s because upward and downward forces are balanced, so they cancel out. You can learn more about net force at this URL:.
Answer: newtons

Question: What type of physics explains the behavior of visible light and electromagnetic waves?
Context: We already know that visible light is the type of electromagnetic waves to which our eyes respond. That knowledge still leaves many questions regarding the nature of light and vision. What is color, and how do our eyes detect it? Why do diamonds sparkle? How does light travel? How do lenses and mirrors form images? These are but a few of the questions that are answered by the study of optics. Optics is the branch of physics that deals with the behavior of visible light and other electromagnetic waves. In particular, optics is concerned with the generation and propagation of light and its interaction with matter. What we have already learned about the generation of light in our study of heat transfer by radiation will be expanded upon in later topics, especially those on atomic physics. Now, we will concentrate on the propagation of light and its interaction with matter. It is convenient to divide optics into two major parts based on the size of objects that light encounters. When light interacts with an object that is several times as large as the light’s wavelength, its observable behavior is like that of a ray; it does not prominently display its wave characteristics. We call this part of optics “geometric optics. ” This chapter will concentrate on such situations. When light interacts with smaller objects, it has very prominent wave characteristics, such as constructive and destructive interference. Wave Optics will concentrate on such situations.
Answer: optics

Question: Closely associated with "work", what is characterized by its many forms and the fact that it is conserved?
Context: Introduction to Work, Energy, and Energy Resources Energy plays an essential role both in everyday events and in scientific phenomena. You can no doubt name many forms of energy, from that provided by our foods, to the energy we use to run our cars, to the sunlight that warms us on the beach. You can also cite examples of what people call energy that may not be scientific, such as someone having an energetic personality. Not only does energy have many interesting forms, it is involved in almost all phenomena, and is one of the most important concepts of physics. What makes it even more important is that the total amount of energy in the universe is constant. Energy can change forms, but it cannot appear from nothing or disappear without a trace. Energy is thus one of a handful of physical quantities that we say is conserved. Conservation of energy (as physicists like to call the principle that energy can neither be created nor destroyed) is based on experiment. Even as scientists discovered new forms of energy, conservation of energy has always been found to apply. Perhaps the most dramatic example of this was supplied by Einstein when he suggested that mass is equivalent to energy (his famous equation E = mc 2 ). From a societal viewpoint, energy is one of the major building blocks of modern civilization. Energy resources are key limiting factors to economic growth. The world use of energy resources, especially oil, continues to grow, with ominous consequences economically, socially, politically, and environmentally. We will briefly examine the world’s energy use patterns at the end of this chapter. There is no simple, yet accurate, scientific definition for energy. Energy is characterized by its many forms and the fact that it is conserved. We can loosely define energy as the ability to do work, admitting that in some circumstances not all energy is available to do work. Because of the association of energy with work, we begin the chapter with a discussion of work. Work is intimately related to energy and how energy moves from one system to another or changes form.
Answer: energy

Question: Newton realized that the nature of gravity on earth that pulls an apple to the ground could explain the motion of these?
Context: As has been noted in numerous Things Great and Small vignettes, this is not the first time the large has been explained by the small and vice versa. Newton realized that the nature of gravity on Earth that pulls an apple to the ground could explain the motion of the moon and planets so much farther away. Minute atoms and molecules explain the chemistry of substances on a much larger scale. Decays of tiny nuclei explain the hot interior of the Earth. Fusion of nuclei likewise explains the energy of stars. Today, the patterns in particle physics seem to be explaining the evolution and character of the universe. And the nature of the universe has implications for unexplored regions of particle physics. Cosmology is the study of the character and evolution of the universe. What are the major characteristics of the universe as we know them today? First, there are approximately 10 11 galaxies in the observable part of the universe. An average galaxy contains more than 10 11 stars, with our Milky Way galaxy being larger than average, both in its number of stars and its dimensions. Ours is a spiral-shaped galaxy with a diameter of about 100,000 light years and a thickness of about 2000 light years in the arms with a central bulge about 10,000 light years across. The Sun lies about 30,000 light years from the center near the galactic plane. There are significant clouds of gas, and there is a halo of less-dense regions of stars surrounding the main body. (See Figure 34.3. ) Evidence strongly suggests the existence of a large amount of additional matter in galaxies that does not produce light—the mysterious dark matter we shall later discuss.
Answer: moon and planets

Question: What term in physics refers to the use of force to move an object?
Context: Work is defined differently in physics than in everyday language. In physics, work means the use of force to move an object. The teen who is playing tennis in Figure above is using force to move her tennis racket, so she is doing work. The teen who is studying isn’t moving anything, so she is not doing work.
Answer: work

Question: Fermat's principle states that what will always take the path that takes the least amount of time?
Context: Light is a wave of changing electric and magnetic fields. Light waves are caused by disturbances in an electromagnetic field, like the acceleration of charged particles (such as electrons). Light has a dual nature; at times, it acts like waves, while at other times it acts like particles, called photons . Light travels through space at the maximum speed allowed by the laws of physics, called the speed of light. Light has no mass, but it carries energy and momentum. Fermat's principle states that light will always take the path that takes the least amount of time (not distance).
Answer: light

Question: The as yet undiscovered grand unified theory is a search to unify laws of what branch of science?
Context: Over 2500 years ago Aristotle proposed two laws of physics governing motion. One for ‘Earthly bodies’ (objects on Earth) that states objects naturally go in straight lines and one for ‘Heavenly bodies’ (objects in space) that states objects naturally go in circles. This idea held steady for 2,000 years until Isaac Newton, in a triumph of brilliance, declared that there is one law of physics that governs motion and he unified “earthly” bodies and “heavenly” bodies with the The Universal Law of Gravitation. Newton used the universal law of gravity to prove that the moon is accelerating towards Earth just as a body on Earth is falling towards it. The acceleration of both the moon and the object on Earth is calculated using the same formula. This theory is so well regarded that it has been used to hypothesize the existence of black holes and dark matter, later verified by observation. The search to unify the laws of physics into one theory continues today and is often referred to as the yet undiscovered Grand Unified Theory (GUT).
Answer: physics

Question: What do you call a circuit that consists of one loop, which if interrupted at any point, causes cessation of the whole circuit's electric current?
Context: A circuit that consists of one loop is called a series circuit . You can see a simple series circuit below. If a series circuit is interrupted at any point in its single loop, no current can flow through the circuit and no devices in the circuit will work. In the series circuit below, if one light bulb burns out, the other light bulb won’t work because it won’t receive any current. Series circuits are commonly used in flashlights. You can see an animation of a series circuit at this URL: http://regentsprep. org/regents/physics/phys03/bsercir/default. htm.
Answer: series circuit

Question: The kayak’s motion in the water is an example of classical addition of what?
Context: If you’ve ever seen a kayak move down a fast-moving river, you know that remaining in the same place would be hard. The river current pulls the kayak along. Pushing the oars back against the water can move the kayak forward in the water, but that only accounts for part of the velocity. The kayak’s motion is an example of classical addition of velocities. In classical physics, velocities add as vectors. The kayak’s velocity is the vector sum of its velocity relative to the water and the water’s velocity relative to the riverbank.
Answer: velocities

Question: Which branch of science is the study of energy, matter, and their interactions?
Context: Physics is the study of energy, matter, and their interactions. It is concerned with matter and energy at all levels—from the most fundamental particles of matter to the entire universe.
Answer: physics

Question: When an electron transitions from an excited state to a less excited state, or ground state, the difference in energy is emitted as a what?
Context: which is identical to the Rydberg equation for R ∞ = k . When Bohr calculated his theoretical value for the hc Rydberg constant, R ∞, and compared it with the experimentally accepted value, he got excellent agreement. Since the Rydberg constant was one of the most precisely measured constants at that time, this level of agreement was astonishing and meant that Bohr’s model was taken seriously, despite the many assumptions that Bohr needed to derive it. The lowest few energy levels are shown in Figure 6.14. One of the fundamental laws of physics is that matter is most stable with the lowest possible energy. Thus, the electron in a hydrogen atom usually moves in the n = 1 orbit, the orbit in which it has the lowest energy. When the electron is in this lowest energy orbit, the atom is said to be in its ground electronic state (or simply ground state). If the atom receives energy from an outside source, it is possible for the electron to move to an orbit with a higher n value and the atom is now in an excited electronic state (or simply an excited state) with a higher energy. When an electron transitions from an excited state (higher energy orbit) to a less excited state, or ground state, the difference in energy is emitted as a photon. Similarly, if a photon is absorbed by an atom, the energy of the photon moves an electron from a lower energy orbit up to a more excited one. We can relate the energy of electrons in atoms to what we learned previously about energy. The law of conservation of energy says that we can neither create nor destroy energy. Thus, if a certain amount of external energy is required to excite an electron from one energy level to another, that same amount of energy will be liberated when the electron returns to its initial state (Figure 6.15). In effect, an atom can “store” energy by using it to promote an electron to a state with a higher energy and release it when the electron returns to a lower state. The energy can be released as one quantum of energy, as the electron returns to its ground state (say, from n = 5 to n = 1), or it can be released as two or more smaller quanta as the electron falls to an intermediate state, then to the ground state (say, from n = 5 to n = 4, emitting one quantum, then to n = 1, emitting a second quantum). Since Bohr’s model involved only a single electron, it could also be applied to the single electron ions He+, Li2+, Be3+, and so forth, which differ from hydrogen only in their nuclear charges, and so one-electron atoms and ions are collectively referred to as hydrogen-like atoms. The energy expression for hydrogen-like atoms is a generalization of the hydrogen atom energy, in which Z is the nuclear charge (+1 for hydrogen, +2 for He, +3 for Li, and so on) and k has a value of 2.179 × 10–18 J. E n = − kZ2 n.
Answer: photon

Question: Because their cells are arranged in bundles, the appearance of skeletal and cardiac muscles is described as what?
Context: http://zonalandeducation. com/mstm/physics/mechanics/vectors/introduction/introductionVectors. html.
Answer: striated

